Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dichotomising Disposal Of Subsidiary In View Of High Court Annulment Of Acquisition -Case Study Of People's Trading Centre Limited

22 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 01, 2022

Abstract

Disposal of a loss making subsidiary increases public's curiosity and scrutiny. This is because there is generally interest to know how much can be fetched from such transaction and how the acquirer intends to roll out turnaround strategy. Issues of consideration paid, observance of the fair value principle and impact on the stakeholder affected by such disposal are often evaluated through post disposal analysis. This study focused on PTC's acquisition by Tafika Holdings Limited which was later annulled by High Court of Malawi in order to protect the creditors and the results of this study indicate there were so many grey areas in the transaction and this is lesson for future acquisition/disposal transactions which must be subjected to intense public scrutiny to protect various stakeholders.

Keywords: Transaction analysis Annulment, Disposal, Dichotomising, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Dichotomising Disposal Of Subsidiary In View Of High Court Annulment Of Acquisition -Case Study Of People's Trading Centre Limited (October 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Acca
Paper F7: Financial Reporting (International), BPP Learning Ltd Posted: 2010
Orama Chiphwanya
Competition and Fair Trading Commission (2022) Recent Decisions by Competition and Fair Trading Commission, Press Release, 1 st August
Nation Online Posted: 2000
Ifrscommunity , Com
Accounting for Business Combinations (IFRS3) Posted: 2020
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
20 Year review of acquisitions, mergers, restructurings and disposals in Malawian Commercial Banking Industry
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
214
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies