Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vetting Compliance Level with Section 70F of the Taxation Act in Mergers and Acquisition of Malawian Banking Industry

12 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 01, 2022

Abstract

Corporate restructuring is ubiquitous in view of external environmental factors (PESTLEE) and internal considerations (SWOT). Mergers and acquisitions are often some of the common tools used in corporate restructuring and these are governed by complex corporate reporting and taxation regimes. Malawi adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) through Malawi Companies Act 2013 and these recognise acquisition transactions while prohibiting merger accounting unless they fall under common control combinations. Acquisition in the Malawian banking industry is complicated by the fact that the acquiree must be merged with the acquirer so that it no longer exists. Meanwhile, the Malawian banks must also comply with Section 70F of the Taxation Act on the acquisition and merging process to be exempted from income tax otherwise the acquisition transaction is treated as a sale. The results of this study indicate serious shortfalls in compliance with the Reserve Bank of Malawi (2010) Guidelines for Processing Applications for Bank Mergers and Acquisitions in some of the acquisition transactions and therefore substantial income taxes could be levied on some material transactions. It is indeed important to evaluate any opportunity to increase government coffers arising out of violations of the taxation code.

Keywords: Taxation, Mergers, Acquisition, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Vetting Compliance Level with Section 70F of the Taxation Act in Mergers and Acquisition of Malawian Banking Industry (August 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
440
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies