Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inside the Boardroom: Evidence from the Board Structure and Meeting Minutes of Community Banks

FEDS Working Paper No. 2024-85

35 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Rosalind L. Bennett

FDIC, Division of Insurance and Research

Manju Puri

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; NBER

Paul E. Soto

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October, 2024

Abstract

Community banks are critical for local economies, yet research on their corporate governance has been scarce due to limited data availability. We explore a unique, proprietary dataset of board membership and meeting minutes of failed community banks to present several stylized facts regarding their board structure and meetings. Community bank boards have fewer members and a higher percentage of insiders than larger publicly traded banks, and experience little turnover during normal times. Their meetings are held monthly and span about two hours. During times of distress, community bank boards convene less often in regularly scheduled meetings in lieu of impromptu meetings, experience higher turnover, particularly among their independent directors, and their meeting tone switches from neutral to significantly negative. Board attention during distressed times shifts towards discussion of capital and examination oversight, and away from lending activities and meeting formalities.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board of directors, Banking, Machine learning, Natural language processing

JEL Classification: G21, G34, C81

Suggested Citation:

Bennett, Rosalind L. and Puri, Manju and Soto, Paul E., Inside the Boardroom: Evidence from the Board Structure and Meeting Minutes of Community Banks (October, 2024). FEDS Working Paper No. 2024-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050914 or http://dx.doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2024.085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
C Angelico , J Marcucci , M Miccoli , F Quarta
Can we measure inflation expectations using Twitter
Journal of Econometrics , volume 228 , issue 2 , p. 259 - 277 Posted: 2022
A N Berger , B Imbierowicz , C Rauch
The roles of corporate governance in bank failures during the recent financial crisis
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 48 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
A N Berger , T Kick , K Schaeck
Executive composition and bank risk taking
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 28 , p. 48 - 65 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Research Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies