Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax burden of German corporations of only 20 % - Fact or fake news?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 169

English translation of "Steuerbelastung deutscher Kapitalgesellschaften von lediglich 20 %-Fakt oder Fake News?" published in Steuer und Wirtschaft (2020), pp. 18-34.

35 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2024 Last revised: 12 Dec 2024

Hans-Peter Huber

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Ralf Maiterth

Humboldt University of Berlin

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

A study by Janský (2019) commissioned by The GREENS/EFA concludes, based on individual financial statements prepared in accordance with German GAAP, that German corporations only pay around 20 % in taxes, instead of the legally required 30 %, as a result of tax planning. Our analysis shows this conclusion does not hold, nor does the claim that large and internationally operating companies have lower tax rates. With an improved sample, which omits partnerships as well as fully or partially tax-exempt corporations and accounts for regulations such as the (95%) tax exemption of investment income and group taxation, the average tax burden of German corporations is in the range of the statutory rate. This also applies to large and internationally operating corporations. However, these results do not indicate the absence of tax planning at the expense of German tax revenue. The finding just demonstrates that tax planning cannot be identified on the basis of individual financial statements.

Keywords: effective tax rates, corporate tax burden, tax avoidance, tax planning, multinational enterprises, Germany

JEL Classification: H25, M41, K34, F23

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Hans-Peter and Maiterth, Ralf, Tax burden of German corporations of only 20 % - Fact or fake news? (December 09, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 169, English translation of "Steuerbelastung deutscher Kapitalgesellschaften von lediglich 20 %-Fakt oder Fake News?" published in Steuer und Wirtschaft (2020), pp. 18-34., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
759,678
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies