Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality and Disclosure of Non-Adjusting Subsequent Events: Evidence from COVID-19


61 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Jenny Guan

Monash University

Wen He

Monash University

Hanyu Wang

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 11, 2024

Abstract

Using Chinese firms' subsequent events disclosure of the COVID-19 outbreak in early 2020, we provide large-scale evidence on firms' materiality judgment and disclosure decisions on subsequent events. We find that firms' materiality judgment and disclosure decisions are related to both underlying economic reasons (i.e., the severity of the outbreak at their location) and firms' disclosure incentives (i.e., litigation risk, investor demand, and capital market pressure). For firms that disclose COVID-19 as an immaterial subsequent event, the decisions appear to be driven by disclosure incentives. Specifically, firms are more forthcoming when they participate in more developed capital markets (i.e., Hong Kong or the U.S.) or employ higher quality auditors. Finally, investors only react to the disclosure of subsequent events for which firms cannot assess the economic impact. Overall, we provide large-scale evidence that subsequent event disclosures relate to both economic and disclosure incentives, that the decision to disclose that an event is immaterial rests on the quality of a firm's capital markets and auditors, and that the disclosures only provide information to investors when the firm cannot assess the impact of the event at the disclosure date.

Keywords: Materiality, subsequent events, disclosure, COVID-19, accounting standards I18, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Guan, Jenny and He, Wen and Wang, Hanyu, Materiality and Disclosure of Non-Adjusting Subsequent Events: Evidence from COVID-19
(December 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5052457 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5052457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
The materiality of accounting errors: Evidence from SEC comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 839 - 868 Posted: 2019
D Amiram , J Chircop , W R Landsman , K V Peasnell
Mandatorily disclosed materiality thresholds, their determinants, and their association with earnings multiples
Columbia Business School Research Paper , p. 15 - 69 Posted: 2017
B Badertscher , K Chapman , J Watkins , H White
Materiality judgment and firm disclosure Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
894
RANK
588,270
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies