Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality in Times of Crisis: Evidence from the EU

26 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2025

Ahmed Hassan Ahmed

University of Dundee School of Business

Sudharshan Reddy Paramati

University of Dundee

Yasean Tahat

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Date Written: August 20, 2022

Abstract

The main purpose of the current study is to investigate the status of earnings quality in the time of crises using a sample of firms in 15 EU countries covering the period 2002-2021. The study also examines the impact of female representation in corporate boards on the sign of earnings quality during the Covid-19 pandemic. The findings indicate that EU firms are more likely to engage in earnings management practices to offset the impact of the crisis on their operations and financial performance, thereby negatively affecting earnings quality. The results also suggest that the level of earnings management is statistically different across years, sectors and countries. In addition, the results revealed that female representation in the board of directors enhances earnings quality by mitigating the level of earnings management. The current study's findings provide practical policy implications for policymakers, shareholders and creditors when making investment decisions during times of economic turmoil.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Financial troubles, EU, Female Representation, Economic Contraction

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Ahmed Hassan and Paramati, Sudharshan Reddy and Tahat, Yasean, Earnings Quality in Times of Crisis: Evidence from the EU (August 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5053715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5053715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R Adam , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
N Ahmad-Zaluki , K Campbell , A Goodacre
Earnings management in Malaysian IPOs: the east Asian crisis, ownership control and post-IPO performance
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 137 Posted: 2011
H Ali , H M G Amin , D Mostafa , E K A Mohamed
Earnings management and investor protection during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence from G-12 countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 37 , issue 7 , p. 775 - 797 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies