Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Firm Disclosures, Patent Licensing, and the Diffusion of Technology

55 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025

Jinhwan Kim

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Kristen Valentine

University of Georgia

Date Written: December 12, 2024

Abstract

We examine the spillover effects of public firm disclosures on patent licensing, a key mechanism for technology diffusion. An interquartile increase in public firm presence, our proxy for peer disclosures, is linked to a 20.7% higher likelihood of a firm obtaining a license. For licensed patents, contracts become more lenient as public disclosures increase: licensors are more likely to forgo unilateral termination rights, grant exclusivity, and charge lower royalties. We find support for a causal narrative using Bartik instruments and the EDGAR implementation as settings. The documented link is stronger when the economic environment is more volatile, information asymmetry is higher, and disclosures are more innovation relevant. That is, licensors are more likely to have lenient licensing terms when public disclosures have a more pronounced role in resolving information frictions. Conditional on licensing, we find a significant increase in licensees' innovative activity that directly builds on the licensed patent, consistent with patent licensing stimulating the diffusion of technology and ideas across firms.

Keywords: Public Firm Disclosures, Patent Licensing, Contract Design, Spillover Effects, Technology Diffusion

JEL Classification: D83, G14, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jinhwan and She, Guoman and Valentine, Kristen, Public Firm Disclosures, Patent Licensing, and the Diffusion of Technology (December 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5053692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5053692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,183
RANK
210,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies