Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Firms' Engagement with the UN SDGs: UK Evidence

23 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025

Ahmed Hassan Ahmed

University of Dundee School of Business

Sudharshan Reddy Paramati

University of Dundee

Naimat Ullah Khan

Cardiff School of Management, Cardiff Metropolitan University UK

Date Written: October 19, 2024

Abstract

There are mounting pressures on businesses from different stakeholder groups to disclose their commitments towards sustainable development via engagement and compliance with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. However, research investigating corporate reporting on Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) is still in its embryonic stage. To understand the current state of the art in this new form of reporting and factors that might impact variation in SDG reporting, it is important to examine the extent of SDGs reporting amongst the UK FTSE All-Share index and investigate the factors that impact this disclosure including the impact of corporate governance mechanisms in improving the extent and quality of that form of reporting. The results revealed that the sample companies did only start supporting SDGs in 2019, more than 3 years after its first introduction. The results also suggest that the extent of adoption is still very limited, as the total average score for the SDGs amongst the sample companies across the investigated period is 29%. A number of factors were found to influence the adoption of SDGs including firm size, board, size, gender diversity and the presence of CSR strategy. It is believed that our findings can improve the understanding and generate new insights for businesses policy makers and other interested parties regarding SDG reporting.

Keywords: Corporate Reporting, SDGs, Stakeholders, ESG/CSR

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Ahmed Hassan and Paramati, Sudharshan Reddy and Khan, Naimat Ullah, What Drives Firms' Engagement with the UN SDGs: UK Evidence (October 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5053703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5053703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation'of sustainability reporting
Crit. Perspect. Account , volume 82 Posted: 2022
A H Ahmed , Y Eliwa , D Power
The Impact of Corporate Social and Environmental Performance on the Cost of Equity Capital. UK Evidence
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 441 Posted: 2019
J Andrew , M Baker
Corporate social responsibility reporting: the last 40 years and a path to sharing future insight
Abacus , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 65 Posted: 2020
J Bebbington , J Unerman
Achieving the United Nations sustainable development goals: an enabling role of accounting research
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 24 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies