Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Carbon Risk Influence Stock Price Crash Risk? International Evidence 

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

52 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024 Last revised: 5 Mar 2025

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Kia Yang Edwin Lim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kristina Minnick

Bentley University

Patrick J. Schorno

KPMG, USA

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between carbon risk and future stock price crash risk, focusing on an international sample of firms. Inherently complex and deep uncertainties of carbon risk limit investors' ability to fully understand and incorporate carbon risk into equity pricing and create room for opportunistic managers to hide bad news about poor climate change performance. Such pricing uncertainties and information asymmetry can result in significant overpricing of stocks (i.e., underpricing of carbon risks), especially for carbon-intensive firms, thereby exposing these stocks to future stock price crash risks. In line with this argument, we find that carbon risk is positively associated with future stock price crash risk. However, we find that better carbon disclosure quality reduces pricing uncertainties and information asymmetry, which attenuates the positive effect of carbon risk on future stock price crash risk. Similarly, internal monitoring (e.g., corporate governance) and external monitoring (e.g., institutional investors and financial analysts) help alleviate information asymmetry related to carbon risk, thus reducing crash risk. In countries with stakeholderoriented business cultures, high climate change performance, and financial transparency, as well as for companies that link compensation to climate change performance, the positive association between carbon risk and stock price crash risk is weaker.

Keywords: Carbon risk, climate change disclosures, stock price crash risk, cross country

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Lim, Kia Yang Edwin and Minnick, Kristina and Schorno, Patrick J. and Shams, Syed, Does Carbon Risk Influence Stock Price Crash Risk? International Evidence  (December 13, 2024). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5055202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5055202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
J M Addoum , D T Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and establishment sales
Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
R B Alley , J Marotzke , W D Nordhaus , J T Overpeck , D M Peteet , R A Pielke , R T Pierrehumbert , P B Rhines , T F Stocker , L D Talley , J M Wallace
Abrupt climate change
Science , volume 299 , issue 5615 , p. 2005 - 2010 Posted: 2003
M Andersson , P Bolton , F Samama
Hedging climate risk
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 72 , p. 13 - 32 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
RANK
388,737
2 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies