Do Commercial Ties Influence ESG Ratings? Evidence from Moody's and S&P, Xuanbo LI, Yun Lou, Liandong Zhang"> Do Commercial Ties Influence ESG Ratings? Evidence from Moody's and S&P">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Commercial Ties Influence ESG Ratings? Evidence from Moody's and S&P

Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 62, Issue 5. Pp. 1901-1940

https://doi.org/10.1111/1475-679X.12582


Posted: 18 Dec 2024

Xuanbo LI

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Yun Lou

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

We provide the first evidence that conflicts of interest arising from commercial ties lead to bias in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) ratings. Using the acquisitions of Vigeo Eiris and RobecoSAM by Moody's and S&P as shocks to the commercial ties between ESG rating agencies and their rated firms, we show that, after their acquisitions by the credit rating agencies (CRAs), ESG rating agencies issue higher ratings to existing paying clients of the CRAs. This effect is greater for firms that have more intensive business relationships with the CRAs, but weaker for firms with more transparent ESG disclosures or higher long-term institutional ownership. The upwardly biased ESG ratings help client firms issue more green bonds and enable the CRAs to maintain credit rating business. Finally, the upwardly biased ESG ratings are less informative of future ESG news. Overall, the business incentives of rating providers appear to engender ESG rating bias.

Keywords: ESG, conﬂicts of interest, rating agencies, sustainability, commercial ties, disclosure

JEL Classification: G20, G24, G28, M48

Suggested Citation:

LI, Xuanbo and Lou, Yun and Zhang, Liandong, Do Commercial Ties Influence ESG Ratings? Evidence from Moody's and S&P (December 01, 2024). Journal of Accounting Research, Volume 62, Issue 5. Pp. 1901-1940, https://doi.org/10.1111/1475-679X.12582
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5055017
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies