Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Corporate Digital Transformation Increase Accounting Conservatism?

23 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2025

Kai Zhong

University of Shanghai for Science &Technology

Liangrong Song

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology - Business School

Siyu Wan

University of Nottingham

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

The advent of the digital economy has brought about a positive impact on enterprises through the process of digital transformation. The advent of digital transformation has brought about the informatisation and standardisation of financial data within enterprises, which has consequently had an impact on the field of accounting and the concept of conservatism. This paper investigates the impact of digital transformation (DIG) on accounting conservatism (CScore) of listed companies based on a sample of A-share listed companies from 2010 to 2019. The results demonstrate that there is a significant positive relationship between digital transformation and accounting conservatism, which remains consistent even after variable substitution. Further analysis indicates that the impact of digital transformation (DIG) on accounting conservatism (CScore) varies across firms with different ownership structures. The effect of DIG on CScore is more pronounced in regions with higher levels of economic development. In conclusion, the paper performs a mechanism test and discovers that media attention has a beneficial effect on the promotion of DIG to enhance CScore. Furthermore, the findings indicate that DIG improves CScore.

Suggested Citation:

Zhong, Kai and Song, Liangrong and Wan, Siyu, Can Corporate Digital Transformation Increase Accounting Conservatism? (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5057212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5057212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
S C Anagnostopoulou , A E Tsekrekos , G Voulgaris
Accounting conservatism and corporate social responsibility
British Accounting Review , volume 53 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
R Atwa , S Alsmadi , B Kharabsheh , R Haddad
Do CEO Attributes Spur Conservatism?
International Journal of Financial Studies , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
S M Avabruth , S Nathan , P Saravanan
Share pledging by controlling shareholders and accounting conservatism: evidence from India
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1349 - 1374 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
697,608
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies