Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Complex Regulation Create Insider Trading Opportunities?

62 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Owen Davidson

Baylor University - Hankamer School of Business

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Matthew R. Holt

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

Over the past two decades, policymakers have increasingly passed broad-reaching and complex regulation. Using the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) as a setting of such regulation, we find that this complex set of changes to U.S. tax law is associated with increased market uncertainty, information asymmetry, and insider trade profitability. These findings are consistent with insiders' differential abilities to process information about the new regulation. Insider profits are concentrated in firms where analysts struggle to predict the effect of the TCJA and among insiders with greater ex-ante ability to understand tax law. External constraints are associated with lower insider trade profitability, and we also find evidence that insider profits are associated with specific provisions of the TCJA. Overall, our evidence suggests that complex regulation can create uncertainty that firm insiders exploit for their own gain and that the legislative process can inadvertently reward firm insiders.

Keywords: G14, G18, K34, Regulation, Information asymmetry, Insider trading, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Public Law 115-97

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K34

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Davidson, Owen and Goldman, Nathan C. and Holt, Matthew R., Does Complex Regulation Create Insider Trading Opportunities? (March 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5061737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5061737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A Masli
General Counsel Prominence and Corporate Tax Policy
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 56 Posted: 2016
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc , A Shleifer
Regulation and Distrust. The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 3 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
P Aghion , A Bergeaud , J Van Reenen
The Impact of Regulation on Innovation Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
RANK
324,308
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies