Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Pay and Company Performance: Agency Theory and Stewardship Theory Perspectives

10 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025

Syaiful Baharee Jaafar

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Date Written: May 15, 2024

Abstract

The company paid a board of directors to enhance performance and meet shareholder satisfaction. Nevertheless, the directors' personal interests had an impact on the company's performance, which could have resulted in decreased shareholder wealth. The board of directors and shareholders can align by increasing their remuneration, as suggested by agency theory. Contrary to stewardship theory, which states that the remuneration provided to board members is their responsibility to protect the company's wealth by increasing performance. This study explains the director remuneration is provided with two reasons, first to align the interest between board of director and shareholder, as explain in agency theory, and the second is a board of director responsibilities secure the company wealth as stated in stewardship theory.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Stewardship Theory, Board of director, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Jaafar, Syaiful Baharee, Director Pay and Company Performance: Agency Theory and Stewardship Theory Perspectives (May 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5062547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5062547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Alam
Stakeholder theory , volume 6 , p. 207 - 222 Posted: 2006
H Barkema , L ; Gomez-Mejia , S Bartholomeusz , G Tanewski , J Chen , M Ezzamel , Z Cai
Managerial compensation and firm performance: A general research framework
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 1176 - 1199 Posted: 1998
S Cheng , M Firth
Family ownership, corporate governance, and top executive compensation
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 549 - 561 Posted: 2006
M J Conyon , L He
Executive compensation and corporate governance in China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1158 - 1175 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies