Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An agency theory and stewardship theory perspective: Board remuneration impacts firm performance

7 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025

Syaiful Baharee Jaafar

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Date Written: July 18, 2024

Abstract

Even though organization performance is a priority by a board of directors, but they need motivation to work for that. Remuneration packages are good strategies to bring the board of directors intently to get good performance. Board of director and shareholder are two parties should have similar interest. However, agency theory argues that the remuneration should be provided to mitigate the conflict between board of director and shareholder to have similar interest. But the Stewardship Theory addresses that the remuneration provided so that, the board of directors is responsibilities to fulfil shareholder satisfaction via better performance.. The board of director work due to the network not because of the remuneration packages intention. This study discusses an Agency Theory and Stewardship Theory related to remuneration provided and enhance organizational performance.

Keywords: Agency theory, Stewardship theory, Board remuneration, Firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Jaafar, Syaiful Baharee, An agency theory and stewardship theory perspective: Board remuneration impacts firm performance (July 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5062542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5062542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
M J Conyon , G V Sadler
Executive pay, tournaments and corporate performance in UK firms
International Journal of Management Reviews , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 168 Posted: 2001
E F Fama , M C Jensen
Separation of ownership and control
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 301 - 325 Posted: 1983
N Fernandes
EC: Board compensation and firm performance: The role of "independent" board members
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 44 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
RANK
897,300
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies