Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Revenue Pressure and Taxpaying Credit Ratings

51 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2024

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Yunxia Bai

Tongji University

Yu Cai

Tongji University

Yewei Wu

Guangxi University

Date Written: December 10, 2024

Abstract

A taxpaying credit rating system was recently implemented in China, which provides valuable information regarding the creditworthiness of companies as taxpayers. We investigate whether the level of taxpaying credit ratings is unduly influenced by the tax revenue pressure facing tax authorities and whether bond investors recognize the associated bias in the ratings. Our findings indicate that when local tax authorities are under pressure to meet tax revenue targets, and when ratings are assigned by county-level authorities, a firm’s tax contributions significantly increase its likelihood of being rated as an A-level taxpayer. Conversely, the positive effect of tax compliance on the probability of receiving an A-level rating is significantly diminished. Upon receiving an A-level rating, there is a notable increase in the excess returns and trading volume of the bonds issued by the firm. However, these positive reactions significantly decline when tax authorities face high pressure from tax revenue targets and when they operate at county levels. Our findings suggest that the pressure to meet tax revenue targets may compromise the integrity of taxpaying credit ratings, and that bond investors are able to discern the quality of these ratings.

Keywords: Taxpaying credit ratings, Tax revenue targets, Tax contributions, Bond trading, Rating quality

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Lili and Bai, Yunxia and Cai, Yu and Wu, Yewei, Tax Revenue Pressure and Taxpaying Credit Ratings (December 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5063825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5063825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J An , W Hou , C Lin
Epidemic disease and financial development
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 1 , p. 332 - 358 Posted: 2022
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of book-tax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
Y Bai , W Tang , G Liu
Tax revenue targets and corporate tax burden
Economic Research (in Chinese) , volume 5 , p. 98 - 112 Posted: 2019
B Becker , T Milbourn
How did increased competition affect credit ratings?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 101 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 514 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
RANK
897,300
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies