Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Human Element: Managerial Characteristics and the Financial Reporting Environment

Forthcoming, Research Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay), 2025, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. 

28 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 20 Dec 2024

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Katie Lem

Ohio State University (OSU)

Keehea Moon

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

This chapter provides an overview of the role that managerial characteristics play in the financial reporting environment. We begin by discussing the importance and implications of understanding the effect of the human element on financial reporting outcomes. We then summarize academic research that sheds light on who matters for financial reporting and which characteristics shape their decisions. While CFO characteristics matter most for financial reporting, reporting outcomes are impacted by the entire top management team. Differences in managerial styles arise from both diverse professional backgrounds (e.g., educational or career-related experiences) and a range of personal characteristics, including innate traits and life experiences.

Keywords: managerial characteristics, top management team, managerial styles

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Weili and Lem, Katie and Moon, Keehea, The Role of the Human Element: Managerial Characteristics and the Financial Reporting Environment (November 15, 2024). Forthcoming, Research Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay), 2025, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5063603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5063603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
719
RANK
429,664
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies