Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of a Non-Audit Services Blacklist and Fee-Cap Provision on Audit and Capital Market Dynamics

69 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024

Ines Simac

KU Leuven

Yuhang Zhu

KU Leuven

Abstract

This study provides preliminary evidence on the use of a blacklist and volume-cap provision to non-audit-services (NAS) as a regulatory tool to reinforce auditor independence. To that end, we exploit EU Regulation 537/2014 which included both such provisions effective on two different dates allowing us to test, via a difference-in-differences design, the effectiveness of each individual treatment. While the regulation was successful in reducing the amount of NAS fees for firms that before the regulation were characterized by high levels of NAS consumption, it also (unintendedly) increased audit fees for these firms without a commensurate improvement in audit quality. Investor confidence did improve post-regulation but this effect is limited to the fee-cap only which we argue is the result of disclosure. Supplemental analyses further suggest that flexibility in implementation of these regulatory provisions did not result in an uneven playing field.

Keywords: blacklist, fee-cap, non-audit services, audit fees, (perceived) audit quality

Suggested Citation:

Simac, Ines and Zhu, Yuhang, The Implications of a Non-Audit Services Blacklist and Fee-Cap Provision on Audit and Capital Market Dynamics. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5064522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5064522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
W J Adams , J L Yellen
Commodity Bundling and the Burden of Monopoly
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 90 Posted: 1976
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Rev Quant Finan Acc , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
B Arruñada
The provision of non-audit services by auditors let the market evolve and decide
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 19 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 1999
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
889,053
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies