Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identity-Centric Data Outsourcing with Full-Scale Cloud Audits

Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Optimization Techniques in the Field of Engineering (ICOFE-2024)

11 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2024

A Arun Kumar

Narasaraopet Engineering College

S. N Tirumala Rao

Narasaraopet Engineering College

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

Maintaining the integrity of sensitive data controlled by data owners become increasingly challenging due to cloud storage's rapid growth. Systems that use number of clouds for storage and seek to increase trustworthiness are susceptible to rigorous replacement attacks. Distributed users can share and save files easily with a cloud storage approach. They provide an Identity-Centric Data Outsourcing (ICDO) scheme with multiple benefits over existing approaches to meet data integrity, controlled outsourcing, and origin auditing problems. This ICDO scheme allows users to authorize specific proxies, identified by their recognizable identities, to upload data on their behalf. simplifying the process by eliminating the need for complex certificate management. Additionally, the scheme supports full-scale, cloud audits, enabling regular integrity checks and audits of data origin, type, and consistency. This system shows better results in terms of security, efficiency and accuracy.

Keywords: Cloud Storage, Audits, Identity-Centric Data Outsourcing (ICDO), Outsourcing, Users.

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, A Arun and Rao, S. N Tirumala, Identity-Centric Data Outsourcing with Full-Scale Cloud Audits (November 15, 2024). Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Optimization Techniques in the Field of Engineering (ICOFE-2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5065438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5065438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
221
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies