Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theories applied in corporate voluntary disclosure: a literature review

20 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2025

Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur Rouf

Daffodil International University

Md. Nur-E-Alam Siddique

ASA University Bangladesh (ASAUB); Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)

Date Written: December 10, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This paper attempts to review the corporate voluntary disclosure (CVD) from the theoretical perspective as well as propose a conceptual framework. Design/methodology/approach-The researchers use structural literature review technique. The sample literature consisting of 55 articles was extracted from the Scopus database over the period of 2017-2021. Findings-The literature observes that the legitimacy, agency and stakeholder theories are most applied in CVD related studies than the other theories. It is also revealed that researchers need to concentrate more studies on those theories of CVD that have been applied in a limited study such as neo-institutional, signaling, resource dependence, political economy and impression management theories. Practical implications-The findings can help the understanding of parties such as practitioners', regulators and potential investors of the theories in CVD from a combined and comprehensive view. Social implications-The results of the study offer new insights into the potential impact of organizational level and country level theories in CVD from different perspectives of developed and developing countries. Originality/value-This study delivers an inclusive literature review of the current study approach on the theories of CVD and highlights some stimulating guidelines for future study.

Keywords: Corporate voluntary disclosure, Environmental disclosure, Theories of CVD, Social responsibility, Review Paper type Literature review

Suggested Citation:

Rouf, Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur and Siddique, Md. Nur-E-Alam, Theories applied in corporate voluntary disclosure: a literature review (December 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5067787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5067787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
M Acar , H Temiz
Empirical analysis on corporate environmental performance and environmental disclosure in an emerging market context: socio-political theories versus economics disclosure theories
International Journal of Emerging Markets , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1061 - 1082 Posted: 2020
S K Agyei , B Yankey
Environmental reporting practices and performance of timber firms in Ghana: perceptions of practitioners
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies Posted: 2019
, p. 268 - 286
S Akbar , C Deegan
Analysis of corporate social disclosures of the apparel industry following crisis: an institutional approach
Accounting and Finance , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 3565 - 3600 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
403,165
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies