Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Regulatory Reforms on Banking Affiliations and Conflict of Interest

48 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Tien Foo Sing

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Real Estate

Zhi Min Zhang

Beijing Normal University - Zhuhai Campus

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 23, 2024

Abstract

Conflicts of interest arise when analysts use private information shared by affiliated banks to generate biased research reports that mislead investors and cause economic losses to investors. Using the global REIT sample, we find that information flows reduce earnings forecast errors of affiliated analysts by 6.2% and that affiliated analysts issue recommendations that are closer to the consensus on covered REITs after obtaining loans from affiliated banks. The regulatory reforms introduced by the Dodd-Frank Act restrict the information flows but did not adversely affect the US-based affiliated analysts, who continue to produce better forecast outcomes relative to other analysts. In contrast, the reforms caused significant declines in forecast accuracy and wider deviations in recommendations of affiliated analysts outside the US. Information barriers may not necessarily disadvantage affiliated analysts, who can work within the information constraints to improve the quality of research and recommendations and generate welfare gains for the markets.

Keywords: The Dodd-Frank Act, Information flows, Conflict of Interest, Affiliated Analysts, Banking Relationship, REITs JEL Code: G14 G17 G21

JEL Classification: G14, G17, G21

Suggested Citation:

Sing, Tien Foo and Zhang, Zhi Min, Effects of Regulatory Reforms on Banking Affiliations and Conflict of Interest (December 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5068287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5068287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
341
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies