Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Corporate Adoption of an Open Innovation Strategy: Evidence from GitHub

53 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 12 Jun 2025

Braiden Coleman

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Karson Fronk

Texas Christian University

Kristen Valentine

University of Georgia

Date Written: December 23, 2024

Abstract

An open innovation strategy involves sharing knowledge and soliciting external feedback to solve problems and create new technologies. We examine the choice to adopt an open innovation strategy and the potential benefits for adopting firms, using firms’ online GitHub postings of software projects as a setting. We find that firms choose open innovation for a portion of their innovation portfolio as a complement to patenting and trade secrecy. Results also show a significantly positive association between GitHub activity and future earnings that is increasing in the amount of crowdsourced feedback and the extent to which peers use the posted technology. Further, GitHub adopting firms experience greater returns to R&D investment, suggestive of a managerial learning channel. However, GitHub usage is also positively associated with future cybersecurity breaches. Using project-level announcement returns to corroborate our firm-year earnings results, we find that firms experience positive, risk-adjusted market returns upon posting projects to GitHub. This pattern of results is consistent with an open innovation strategy being net beneficial for adopting firms even as it presents some costs. Overall, the evidence advances our understanding of which firms choose an open innovation strategy and the potential sources of private value creation from adoption, which has implications for the role of knowledge sharing in the new economy.

Keywords: open innovation, GitHub, crowdsourcing, managerial learning JEL codes: M40, M41, O31, O32, O33, O36

Suggested Citation:

Coleman, Braiden and Fronk, Karson and Valentine, Kristen,

Corporate Adoption of an Open Innovation Strategy: Evidence from GitHub

(December 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5068865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5068865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,215
RANK
260,398
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies