Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Municipal Land Finance Affect Corporate Innovation? Evidence from China

66 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Yi Liu

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Jingyuan Qiao

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Kai Wu

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Finance

Date Written: December 23, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of municipal land finance on corporate innovation in China. Using a large dataset of Chinese-listed firms from 2007 to 2021, we find that higher municipal land finance is positively associated with firms' innovation output, measured by patent applications and grants. We address endogeneity concerns using a Bartik-style instrumental variable approach and a difference-indifferences analysis based on the introduction of home purchase restrictions. This effect is more pronounced for non-SOEs, non-politically connected firms, firms with lower ESG scores, and cities with weaker intellectual property rights. The positive impact is driven by local governments allocating more land revenue to R&D subsidies and investing in amenities to attract skilled labor. Residential and public facility land sales primarily contribute to this effect. Municipal land finance enhances the quantity and quality of corporate innovation and boosts corporate R&D expenditures without leading to resource misallocation. We also document positive spatial spillover effects on innovation in neighboring cities. Our findings highlight the role of land finance in China's innovation-driven growth.

Keywords: corporate innovation, government subsidies, skilled workforce, land finance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yi and Qiao, Jingyuan and Wu, Kai, Does Municipal Land Finance Affect Corporate Innovation? Evidence from China (December 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5068282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5068282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
479
RANK
826,677
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies