Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trustworthiness of Firm Valuations: Bias and Market Perception in Compliance with Capital Market Regulations October 2024

21 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025

Koresh Galil

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Economics

Ilanit Gavious

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

Eli El-Al

Ben Gurion University of the Negev

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

Capital market and accounting regulations stipulate that firms' market prices should be preferred over expert valuations as the latter are more susceptible to subjective assertions or judgments by the management and/or appraiser. As a result of this regulatory requirement, companies' subsidiaries that are (not) publicly traded are generally included in their financial reports according to market (expert) value. However, we show that (1) for private firms, expert valuations are systematically upward biased, whereas, for public firms, they are not; (2) private firms' expert valuations are non-informative, whereas, for public firms, they are not only informative but more so than the market values; and (3) market participants consider the public companies' expert valuations reliable and useful. It appears that market participants are able to see through the inherent possibility of an intentional or unintentional bias in firm valuations that rely on future projections and still find valuations valuable. Our results should be of interest to regulators, investors, managers, financial analysts, and various other capital market participants. Acknowledging regulatory limitations can benefit market participants even in the presence of imperfect regulations.

Keywords: Firm Valuation, Regulation, Fair Value, Bias, Market Perception

JEL Classification: G12, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Galil, Koresh and Gavious, Ilanit and El-Al, Eli, Trustworthiness of Firm Valuations: Bias and Market Perception in Compliance with Capital Market Regulations October 2024 (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5070815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5070815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Bai , T Philippon , Alexi A Savov
Have financial markets become more informative
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 625 - 654 Posted: 2016
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
M E Barth
Fair value accounting: Evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
D C Burgstahler , L Hail , C Leuz
The importance of reporting incentives: earnings management in European private and public firms
Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 983 - 1016 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
872,402
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies