Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post Review of the Adoption of IFRS 17- Insurance Contracts by the Malawian Holding Companies

14 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

It was widely believed that the Malawian insurance companies both general insurers and life assurance companies, were not fully prepared for the mandatory adoption of IFRS 17 on 1st January 2023. Consequently, the Reserve Bank of Malawi elevated the compliance risk. This study strived to evaluate the financial impact on the adoption of IFRS 17 on the holding companies with insurance subsidiaries and associates. The results of this study have demonstrated four holding companies were supposed to adopt IFRS 17 but only two thereof complied with the mandatory adoption of IFRS 17 leading to material misstatement of financial statements. The two holding companies that adopted IFRS 17 recognised increased retained earnings in the restated financial statements for 2021 without disclosing the enhanced cost of adopting IFRS 17 which include investment in skilled labour, information technology and other associated costs as reported globally. The believability of such financial statements is quite low and not relevant to the users of the financial statements. The insurance industry is governed by the Insurance Act 2010 and several Reserve Bank of Malawi Directives. These require amendments or revisions to accommodate the tenets of IFRS 17. There are obvious signs of deliberate disregard of the reporting obligations amongst the Malawian holding companies and it is therefore recommended that the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Malawi must review this matter further.

Keywords: IFRS 17, Malawi, Holding, Companies, Insurance

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Post Review of the Adoption of IFRS 17- Insurance Contracts by the Malawian Holding Companies (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5071674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5071674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Miguel Arce , Begona Giner , Mohammed Taleb , Amin
Due process as a legitimating mechanism: Participation and responsiveness in the development of IFRS 17: Insurance contracts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 Posted: 2023
Richard Chukundura , Banele Dlamini , Prisca Sibanda
An assessment of the adoption of IFRS 17 by short term insurance Companies in Zimbabwe
International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 12 , issue 9 , p. 1 - 4 Posted: 2023
EIOPA-Bos 24
IFRS 17 Insurance Contract Report Posted: 1944
Peter Fietcher , Wayne R Landsman , Kenneth Peasnell , Annelies Renders
Do industry-specific accounting standards matter for capital allocation decisions?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 77 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
713,531
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies