Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of external auditors in the financial reporting process

Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

38 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Sarah E. Stein

Virginia Tech

Date Written: November 08, 2024

Abstract

External auditors can increase stakeholders’ confidence in the financial reports provided by companies, which allows for better decision-making. However, there is often an expectations gap between what stakeholders believe auditors do and what auditors are required to do under the applicable auditing standards. This expectations gap is exacerbated by the fact that not all audits are created equal. Audit firms have access to different resources, which can affect the type and quality of audit services they can provide. In this chapter, we dig into how audits are conducted, what factors affect audit quality, and why stakeholders have a hard time distinguishing the quality of one audit from another. We conclude by discussing how stakeholders can engage with companies to gain more insight into the audit, and by looking forward to consider external auditors’ involvement in providing assurance over non-financial information (e.g., sustainability-related disclosures). 

Keywords: audit, Big 4, regulation, information asymmetry, investors, materiality

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Stein, Sarah E., The role of external auditors in the financial reporting process (November 08, 2024). Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5072871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5072871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
325,744
216 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies