Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What does Non-Audit Business Mean to Auditors and Audit Clients? Evidence from Examining Ernst & Young's Split Events

66 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 11 Oct 2025

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Muzhi Wang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Date Written: February 01, 2024

Abstract

We explore the implications of audit firms’ non-audit services (NAS) to the firms and their clients. The events surrounding Ernst & Young’s (EY) proposed split of its audit and non-audit businesses provide an opportune setting to address endogeneity concerns and dispel potential confounding effects. This research focuses on two key events: the revelation of EY’s split plan on May 26, 2022, and the news of the plan’s failure on March 31, 2023. Our evidence implies that EY clients experienced significantly negative abnormal stock returns after the split news but significantly positive returns when investors learned that the split plan had collapsed. In a difference-in-differences analysis of EY audit employees’ ratings of the firm, we provide corroborating evidence―their ratings significantly decline in a period after May 26, 2022 but significantly improve after EY abandoned its split plan. The stock price reactions are larger for EY clients that are more likely to be enduring financial distress, suffer higher litigation risk, and procure more NAS from EY. These findings suggest that NAS is perceived by investors as beneficial to audit clients―likely stemming from enhanced audit firm financial stability and knowledge spillovers―outweighing potential distraction or conflict-of-interest effects. Our evidence has major implications for regulators regarding the oversight and provision of NAS.

Keywords: Non-audit service, Knowledge spillover, Audit firm's financial stability, Stock valuation

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Muzhi and Yang, Zhifeng, What does Non-Audit Business Mean to Auditors and Audit Clients? Evidence from Examining Ernst & Young's Split Events (February 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5073568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5073568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
614,231
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies