Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Adoption and Audit Quality

53 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Mei Luo

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Daniel Rabetti

National University of Singapore (NUS); Harvard Business School

Shuangchen Yu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: December 27, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of blockchain adoption in the corporate setting. Specifically, we provide comprehensive empirical support to recent theory (Cao, Cong, and Young, 2024) proposing that blockchain adoption positively affects endogenous audit quality and client misstatements. Exploiting the exogenous implementation of blockchain technology in bank confirmations in China, our study documents a significant reduction in regulatory penalties for financial misstatements, driven by auditors' enhanced ability to identify and correct past financial errors, especially in revenue and expense recognition. Additionally, we find that the benefits of blockchain adoption are more pronounced in non-specialist industries, state-owned enterprises, and firms with smaller audit committees or fewer independent directors and apply regardless of whether a large auditor audits the firm, suggesting that blockchain adoption also levels the plain field of audit quality across auditors with different capacities and financial resources. Moreover, blockchain adoption induces efficiency, translating to lower audit fees, higher non-audit service fees, reduced audit costs, and more timely audit reporting. Overall, this study provides a novel contribution to the literature examining the economic consequences of emerging technologies in auditing, tests several predictions of recently proposed theory, and offers insights into potential applications and future directions of blockchain in the corporate setting.

Keywords: Blockchain adoption, Audit quality, Misreporting, Audit efficiency, Monitoring

JEL Classification: D40, G32, G34, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Mei and Rabetti, Daniel and Yu, Shuangchen, Blockchain Adoption and Audit Quality (December 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5074602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5074602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C M Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
J Aharony , C W J Lee , T Wong
Financial packaging of ipo firms in china
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
RANK
234,984
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies