Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Interlocks and Corporate Risk Disclosures

30 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Amin Tavakkolnia

KU Leuven

Dieter Smeulders

University of Bern

Date Written: December 25, 2024

Abstract

This study explores how board interlocks influence the content and quality of corporate risk disclosures. Using a dataset of 10-K filings from non-financial U.S. public firms spanning 2006 to 2023, we investigate whether and how the network created by directors with multiboard memberships facilitate the transfer of risk-related information between linked firms. We use a topic modeling technique (Top2Vec) to categorize individual risk factors disclosed in Item 1A sections and compare their content across firms with shared directors. Our results show that interlocked firms disclose more similar risk factors, particularly when the shared director is an executive director. However, firms that share a director from risk or audit committee are less likely to disclose similar risk factors. We further find that the transferred risk factors between interlocked firms are often less specific, shorter, and harder to read, indicating reduced textual quality. These findings underscore the dual role of board interlocks in fostering risk awareness while potentially diminishing the informativeness of disclosures. This study contributes to the literature on corporate governance, risk reporting, and the knowledge transfer

Keywords: Risk disclosure, Board interlocks, Textual analysis, Disclosure quality, Corporate governance, Topic modeling, Top2Vec

Suggested Citation:

Tavakkolnia, Amin and Smeulders, Dieter, Board Interlocks and Corporate Risk Disclosures (December 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5074527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5074527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
622,944
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies