Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Adjustments to the Comparables Range

The Bureau of National Affairs Inc. Tax Management Transfer Pricing Report, Vol. 12, No. 05, July 9, 2003.

20 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Jean-François Ruhashyankiko

International Monetary Fund (IMF); Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA); Harvard University

Date Written: July 09, 2003

Abstract

Risk adjustments as conventionally applied in transfer pricing planning and compliance documentation may provide an acceptable adjustment to the expected returns. However, these adjustments may not provide an appropriate adjustment to the risk itself-the variance of the expected returns. This article highlights that finance theory, supported by empirical findings, may provide a rationale for suitable risk adjustments and explains how such adjustments may be performed for transfer pricing purposes. As part of this, the paper analyzes how the U.S. transfer pricing regulations for “risk adjustments” to the range of comparable unrelated companies that are used to develop a range of prices or margins that determine compliance with U.S. transfer pricing regulations can produce adjustments that are the opposite of those predicted by empirical economic behavior. Using annual market returns for U.S. securities between 2026 and 2000, the study also finds that there was a statistically significant positive correlation between the mean of the historical returns of each asset class and the standard deviation of those returns, which would be consistent with the economic principle that among unrelated transactions (purchases of securities) increasing one’s risk (of loss) will increase the expected return. In other words, risk and return are correlated such that over long periods such that an increase in the riskiness of one investment over another will tend to be rewarded with an increase in the expected or average return, which appears to compensate for some proportion of expected losses that are predicted by a wider distribution of outcomes, whose left tail in a Normal distribution can extend to the left of a 0% return in any given year.  This particular result can be useful for evaluating longer term outcomes of corporate transfer pricing planning and execution, by measuring the coefficient of variation of the returns of the corporation’s subsidiaries involved in intercompany transactions, to detect if the taxpayer is being compliant with transfer pricing laws by associating greater expected returns with greater risk bearing, or alternatively is manipulating its transfer pricing to associate lower expected returns with high risk-bearing activities in high tax jurisdictions.  Such a result could explain consistently low returns or losses over time in the jurisdiction where the higher risks have been undertaken, accompanied by consistently high windfall profits in a low tax or tax haven jurisdiction by one or more entities undertaking few or no additional risk-bearing activities. Mean-variance analyses as presented here can be used to detect aggressive profit shifting that might not otherwise be detected by tax authorities that examine only ex ante results on a year-by-year basis. 

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L and Ruhashyankiko, Jean-Francois and Ruhashyankiko, Jean-Francois, Risk Adjustments to the Comparables Range (July 09, 2003). The Bureau of National Affairs Inc. Tax Management Transfer Pricing Report, Vol. 12, No. 05, July 9, 2003., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
03 Copyright 2003 TAX MANAGEMENT INC., a subsidiary of The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. TMTR
03 Copyright 2003 TAX MANAGEMENT INC., a subsidiary of The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. TMTR
03 Copyright 2003 TAX MANAGEMENT INC., a subsidiary of The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. TMTR
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
RANK
708,207
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies