Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DEI Public Sentiment and Corporate DEI Performances

Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 20 Jan 2025

Alice Hsieh

University of California, Berkeley

Der-Tzon Hsieh

National Taiwan University - Department of Economics

Shih Ting Hsieh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hai-Chin Yu

Chung Yuan Christian University

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the influence of public sentiment on corporate performance in the context of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). Despite the growing societal emphasis on DEI, limited research explores whether positive or negative public sentiment drives substantial organizational change. This research investigates the correlation between DEI news sentiment and actual DEI performance by utilizing a comprehensive dataset from RavenPack, which includes DEI-related news events across 38 countries from 2010 to 2022.

The DEI performance metrics analyzed include board diversity, employee demographics, inclusion initiatives, etc. Our findings reveal that firms with higher positive DEI sentiment exhibit increased gender diversity at the board level and many other DEI metrics, although some DEI measures are mixed.

We employ an instrumental variables approach to address endogeneity concerns, using major index inclusions as instruments for public sentiment. A difference-in-differences analysis, leveraging the Big Three campaign and the #MeToo movement, provides further validation.

The results indicate that public sentiment significantly influences corporate behavior through heightened scrutiny and media coverage, motivating firms to align with DEI goals. This study contributes to academic discourse by offering a novel method for measuring DEI efforts using news sentiment analysis and underscoring the critical role of media scrutiny in advancing DEI within corporate governance.

Declaration of Interest

none

Ethics Approval

none

Funder Statement

none

Suggested Citation:

Hsieh, Alice and Hsieh, Der-Tzon and Hsieh, Shih Ting and Yu, Hai-Chin, DEI Public Sentiment and Corporate DEI Performances (June 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075857
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies