Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Coordinated Adaptation to Changes: Bank-affiliated Analysts in the Rising Secondary Loan Market

49 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Jinping Zhang

Fudan University - School of Management; Business School, National University of Singapore

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Yi Dong

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

Date Written: June 01, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we analyze how banks strategically deploy their analysts to facilitate their secondary loan trading, speaking to the within-organization coordination in response to rapid changes. Consistent with the coordinated adaptation, we find that banks utilize their affiliated analysts to balance the benefits of information revelation in the secondary loan market and those of information withholding in the primary lending market. Affiliated analysts are more likely to issue forecasts for borrowers upon trading initiations of loans syndicated by their affiliating banks. Such an effect is stronger for banks with weaker balance sheets and weaker for banks relying more on traditional relationship lending. Affiliated analysts' coverage lowers bid-ask spreads and increases market participation of secondary loans, yet it reduces banks' likelihood of obtaining future relationship lending business from the borrowers. Due to conflicts of interest, affiliated analysts exhibit an optimistic bias in their forecasts around loan trading initiations.

Keywords: Organization structure, analysts, secondary loan trading, information advantage, liquidity, relationship lending

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Jinping and Lin, Yupeng and Dong, Yi and Ni, Chenkai, On the Coordinated Adaptation to Changes: Bank-affiliated Analysts in the Rising Secondary Loan Market (June 01, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to Ceos? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and Ceo values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
H Amiraslani , J Donovan , M Phillips , R Wittenberg-Moerman
Contracting in the dark: The rise of public-side lenders in the syndicated loan market
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2023
P Bansal , M R Desjardine
Business sustainability: It is about time
Strategic Organization , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 78 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
765,896
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies