Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing for Corporate Treasury in the Multinational Enterprise

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol 20 No. 2 (Spring, 2008). 

18 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: July 22, 2008

Abstract

This 2008 paper provides a number of analytic tools for pricing intercompany transactions related to financing and other financial transactions such as cash pooling, lending, factoring, credit enhancement through guarantees or pledging of assets or notes, securities and commodities trading, asset management, hedging, interest and currency swaps, insurance, and leasing—all conducted between subsidiaries of the same MNE. These transactions carry significant tax risk if not properly structured, priced, and documented according to the tax and transfer pricing rules in each country. Yet such arrangements can also improve financial outcomes by reducing costs of financing, increasing cash flow where needed, or reducing overall tax payments, all of which can increase net income. Tax rules in different countries typically require an economic valuation analysis and associated documentation to demonstrate compliance with the “arm’s length standard” used by tax authorities around the world to determine whether taxpayers are over- or undercharging for intercompany financial products and services in ways that cause underpayment of otherwise owed taxes. This paper identifies several planning approaches and financial transaction valuation models that can be used to maximize the benefits of intercompany cross-border financial transactions engaged in within a multinational corporation’s finance and/or treasury department, in ways that comply with the arm’s length standard.

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Transfer Pricing for Corporate Treasury in the Multinational Enterprise (July 22, 2008). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol 20 No. 2 (Spring, 2008). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Edward I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Frank Berry , Desiree ; Van Welsum , Stephen L Curtis , Jean-Francois Ruhashyankiko , David K Eiteman , I Arthur , Stonehill , H Michael
Transfer Pricing Analysis Reliability: Econometric Approaches
Report to the Congress on Earnings Stripping, Transfer Pricing, and U.S. Income Tax Treaties , volume 13 , p. 1148 - 1154 Posted: 2003
Moffett , Cheol S Eun , G Bruce , Resnik
Interna-International Financial Management , volume 3 Posted: 2004
Frank J Fabozzi
Fixed Income Mathematics: Analytical and Statistical Techniques , volume 3 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
RANK
785,362
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies