Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Makes the Impairment Rules Under IFRS Better than US GAAP? Insights from Quarterly Impairment and Reversal Data

56 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Maria Rykaczewski

Arizona State University

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

Matt Baugh

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hong Chang Woo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

A fundamental purpose of accounting is to convey value relevant information about assets. To this end, prior research finds that IFRS' accounting for asset impairments is "superior" to US GAAP. This study investigates why there is such a difference. We exploit quarterly data to better identify differences in the standards' reported outcomes. Although differences exist for recognition and measurement of impairment losses, we find these do not drive IFRS' superior value relevance. Rather, the superiority is driven by IFRS' requirement to reverse impairment losses when expected future cash flows improve. Such reversals are prohibited under US GAAP. Our results are stronger in circumstances likely to induce auditor conservatism. (e.g., countries with higher rule of law and those with an established POB). Our findings have implications for future research and standard setting, and suggest US GAAP accounting for long-lived asset impairments should be more in line with assets held for sale or investments.

Keywords: Impairment loss, Impairment reversals, IFRS, Value Relevance, Interim reports, accounting standards

Declaration of Interest

n/a

Ethics Approval

n/a

Funder Statement

n/a

Suggested Citation:

Rykaczewski, Maria and Lamoreaux, Phillip T. and Baugh, Matt and Chang Woo, Hong, What Makes the Impairment Rules Under IFRS Better than US GAAP? Insights from Quarterly Impairment and Reversal Data (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5076690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5076690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
475,518
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies