Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Engagement-related Networks and Audit Outcomes

59 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Scott Seavey

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Date Written: December 23, 2024

Abstract

Using social and economic network methodologies, we construct an engagement-related network (ERN) based on audit partners and audit committee members interacting across audits. Then, we investigate the role of engagement-related connectedness for audit outcomes. We find that partners with greater connectedness in the ERN are associated with a lower likelihood of misstatements. We also find that the association between partner ERN connectedness and the likelihood of misstatement is more pronounced when audit committee connectedness is low. Conversely, the positive influence of audit committee connectedness on audit quality, suggested by prior studies, occurs when partner ERN connectedness is low. Results jointly suggest that knowledge gained by partners well-connected within the ERN may substitute for knowledge gained via audit committee connectedness. Additionally, greater partner ERN connectedness significantly increases audit quality when clients have lower audit committee competency, partners have short tenure with clients, and partners are time-constrained. Our results are robust to different network permutations, an alternative measure of audit quality, varying partner characteristics, and hierarchical linear modeling. 

Keywords: Social Networks, Engagement participants, Engagement-related Network, Audit Outcomes

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo and Omer, Thomas C. and Seavey, Scott, Audit Engagement-related Networks and Audit Outcomes (December 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5076763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5076763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
M Beauchamp
An improved index of centrality
Behavioral Science , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 163 Posted: 1965
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
P Bianchi
Auditors' joint engagements and audit quality: Evidence from Italian private companies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 1533 - 1577 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
658
RANK
572,087
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies