Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expanding the Accounting Profession Onto Non-Financial Domains: The Role of Expert Knowledge and Boundary-Work

29 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2024

Yaismir Rivera

Universidad del Valle

Shahzad Uddin

University of Essex

Abstract

Professional elites take advantage of their strategic position as experts to expand their fields of action toward new domains. Consequently, they would achieve the aim of expanding the professional services market. This paper examines how accounting experts may deploy rhetorical strategies under a boundary work effort. Drawing on the conception of the role of actors as capable agents, and especially, the strategic position of experts in society (Giddens, 1984, 1999) and the development of the International Integrated Reporting Framework, we analyse how expert knowledge (Giddens, 1999) can be involved in a boundary work (Gieryn, 1983) favourable to the accounting professional expansion towards non-financial domains. This research combines content analysis and critical discourse analysis to study the intertextuality and interdiscursivity strategies present in texts (mainly comment letters) related to the formulation process of the integrated reporting framework.

Keywords: The accounting profession, Integrated Reporting, Expert knowledge, Boundary-work

Suggested Citation:

Rivera, Yaismir and Uddin, Shahzad, Expanding the Accounting Profession Onto Non-Financial Domains: The Role of Expert Knowledge and Boundary-Work. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5078408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5078408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
RANK
906,046
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies