Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Effects of Star-Analysts' Departure: New Evidence from China

Journal of Corporate Finance, Accept

41 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025 Last revised: 28 Jun 2025

Zhifan Tian

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Chaofan Li

Wuhan University of Technology

Yi Wu

University of Reading

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of star analysts departure on their peers within the context of China. Using manually-collected data on star-analyst departure, we found the positive impact of star-analyst departure on non-star analyst forecast accuracy, revealing a novel effect of peer pressure in China. We examine the working relationship, analyst status and institutional environment as moderating indicators of peer pressure. Our results show that the non-star analysts who have worked in hierarchical teams with star analysts are more likely to improve their forecast accuracy after the departure of a star analyst. The improvement in forecast accuracy among nonstar analysts is positively associated with the availability of resources that were previously dominated by star analysts due to their superior status. Furthermore, the benefits of a star analyst's departure on non-star analysts are greater in non-state owned brokers and brokers with collective culture. These findings are robust after addressing the endogeneity. Our paper offers new evidence of understanding the role of peer pressure in analysts' performance.

Keywords: Star Analysts departure, Non-star Analysts, Analysts' forecasting, Peer Pressure, Working Relationship

Suggested Citation:

Tian, Zhifan and Li, Chaofan and Wu, Yi and Zeng, Cheng, Peer Effects of Star-Analysts' Departure: New Evidence from China (January 02, 2025). Journal of Corporate Finance, Accept, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5080046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
O Altınkılıç , V S Balashov , R S Hansen
Investment bank monitoring and bonding of security analysts
research. Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 98 - 119 Posted: 2019
E Asgari , R A Hunt , D A Lerner , D M Townsend , M L A Hayward , K Kiefer
Red giants or black holes? The antecedent conditions and multilevel impacts of star performers , volume 15 , p. 223 - 265 Posted: 2021
J Brown
Quitters never win: The (adverse) incentive effects of competing with superstars
Journal of Political Economy , volume 119 , issue 5 , p. 982 - 1013 Posted: 2011
L D Brown , A Hugon
Team earnings forecasting , volume 14 , p. 587 - 607 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies