Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Public Disclosure of Revenues by Private Companies in the United States

ESSEC Business School Research Paper

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 5080774

51 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Yiran Kang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Wenqiang Pan

School of Management, Fudan University

Robert Stoumbos

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: January 02, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between capital raising under Regulation D and the decision to voluntarily disclose revenues to the public. We find that the nondisclosers raise more capital than the disclosers. We hypothesize that this is an equilibrium outcome, where high-revenue companies choose nondisclosure and low-revenue companies disclose to deter competition. In support of this hypothesis, when we look to the future, we find that the nondisclosers continue to be more successful than the disclosers in terms of the capital they raise in their next Form D filings. Furthermore, their future performance resembles that of high-revenue disclosers more than low-revenue disclosers. We further find that cities and industries with more disclosure in one year see fewer capital raisings via Form D in the next year, consistent with disclosure of low revenues deterring competition. Collectively, our evidence fails to support the notion that nondisclosure is systematically used by low-revenue companies to fool investors.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Private Companies, Capital Raising

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Kang, Yiran and Pan, Wenqiang and Stoumbos, Robert, Voluntary Public Disclosure of Revenues by Private Companies in the United States (January 02, 2025). ESSEC Business School Research Paper, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 5080774, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5080774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5080774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C Aghamolla , R T Thakor
Do mandatory disclosure requirements for private firms increase the propensity of going public?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , p. 755 - 804 Posted: 2022
A Agrawal , Y Lim
Does general solicitation improve access to capital for small businesses? Posted: 2021
K Allee , L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
U Atz , M Bonacchi , I Guttman
Going dark: Incentives for private firms' strategic nondisclosure Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
333,065
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies