Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign-Funded Firms and Stock Price Informativeness: Evidence from Chinese Capital Markets

31 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2025

Jianhao Gao

Chengdu University of Information Technology

Zhenzhou Tu

Chengdu University of Information Technology

Abstract

This article aims to test whether and how foreign-funded firms can increase the stock price informativeness of China's capital market. It uses the data of China's A-share listed firms from 2011 to 2022. We found a significant positive relationship between foreign-funded firms and stock price informativeness. The study also found that compared with samples with a low level of social responsibility, the positive relationship between foreign-funded firms and stock price informativeness is more significant in samples with a higher level of social responsibility. Compared with samples with a low level of product market competition, the positive relationship between foreign-funded firms and stock price informativeness is more significant in samples with a higher level of product market competition. We found that foreign-invested firms increase the stock price informativeness by attracting media coverage and choosing the Big Four accounting firms. After alleviating the endogeneity problem in four ways, the conclusions still hold.

Keywords: Foreign-funded firms, Stock price informativeness, Social responsibility, Product market competition

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Jianhao and Tu, Zhenzhou, Foreign-Funded Firms and Stock Price Informativeness: Evidence from Chinese Capital Markets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5081891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5081891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Alberici , F Querci
The quality of disclosures on environmental policy: The pro file of financial intermediaries, Corporate social responsibility and environmental manag ement , volume 23 , p. 283 - 296 Posted: 2016
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory
Journal of political econom y , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Product market competition, corporate gove rnance, and firm value: Evidence from the EU area
European Financial Management , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 452 - 469 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
RANK
765,896
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies