Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board-level Employee Representation and Risk Sharing between Shareholders and Employees: Evidence from the German Codetermination Act of 1976

36 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025 Last revised: 22 Jan 2025

Marc Steffen Rapp

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics; University of Marburg - Marburg Centre for Institutional Economics (MACIE); Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Iuliia Udoieva

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics

Date Written: January 05, 2025

Abstract

With increasing concerns about the accountability of shareholder-oriented boards, board-level employee representation (BLER) gains momentum in public debate. Although BLER is not a new idea, there is little consensus about its economic effects. Using the enactment of the German Codetermination Act of 1976 as a quasi-natural experiment, we document two consequences of BLER. First, labor expenses of firms become less responsive to revenue, specifically in sectors with high labor turnover rates. Second, BLER increases operating leverage of firms. Overall, our findings are consistent with the view that BLER affects risk sharing between shareholders and employees.

Keywords: board-level employee representation, codetermination, labor costs, risk sharing

Declaration of Interest

None (Applies to both authors)

Funder Statement

None

JEL Classification: D24, J51, J54

Suggested Citation:

Rapp, Marc Steffen and Udoieva, Iuliia, Board-level Employee Representation and Risk Sharing between Shareholders and Employees: Evidence from the German Codetermination Act of 1976 (January 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5083739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
RANK
614,231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies