Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in

' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 

' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Role of the Audit Committee in Supporting Integration between the External Auditors and Internal Auditors to Enhance Corporate Governance in Libya's Banking Sector

Journal of Economics and Business Studies, 11(2), 125-147, 2024

23 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2025 Last revised: 23 Jun 2025

Abdulhakim M. Masli

Misurata University

Mustafa W. Sidoun

Misurata University

Mohamed Khalafullah

Misurata University

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate the role of the Audit Committee in supporting integration between external auditors and internal auditors in the Libyan banking sector to enhance corporate governance. This is achieved through supervising the function of internal auditing, overseeing the external audit process, and achieving integration between them to ensure audit quality and enhance corporate governance in this banking sector. To achieve the objectives of this study, a descriptive analytical approach was followed, and a questionnaire was utilised as a tool for data collection. A total of 150 questionnaires were distributed to the study sample, which includes four categories in the banking sector: audit committee members, internal auditors, external auditors, and executive managers. A total of 105 questionnaires were retrieved, representing a response rate of 70%. Data analysis for the field study was conducted using appropriate statistical methods utilising the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS).

The findings of the study indicate that the audit committee plays a role in supervising the function of internal auditing and monitoring the external audit process in Libyan commercial banks. Additionally, the results indicate that the Audit Committee supports integration between the work of internal auditors and external auditors, contributing to enhancing corporate governance in the Libyan banking sector. The study results contribute to the accounting literature by providing new evidence from a developing country to identify ways to enhance the effectiveness of this committee to enhance corporate governance. The study results also have implications for regulators, the Central Bank of Libya, board members and audit committee members to pay more attention to the role played by the audit committee to support this integration, which leads to increased confidence in the results of the auditor's process of financial statements that are adopted by integrating the work of external and internal auditors.

Suggested Citation:

Masli, Abdulhakim M. and Sidoun, Mustafa W. and Khalafullah, Mohamed, Evaluating the Role of the Audit Committee in Supporting Integration between the External Auditors and Internal Auditors to Enhance Corporate Governance in Libya's Banking Sector

(September 10, 2024). Journal of Economics and Business Studies, 11(2), 125-147, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083567

' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 

' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S Alhababsah , A Alhaj-Ismail
Does shared tenure between audit committee chair and engagement partner affect audit outcomes? Evidence from the UK
The British Accounting Review , volume 55 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
T M Almomania , A M Ayedhb , M Abdallah
The impact of board of directors' characteristics on the earnings quality: Evidence manufacturing firms in Amman stock exchange
Proceeding of Icarbss , p. 282 - 288 Posted: 2017
J Al-Okaily , S Naueihed
The impact of audit committee characteristics on auditor remuneration: UK evidence
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 52 Posted: 2023
A M Alrshah , F Fadzil
The impact of Corporate Governance reforms on External Auditor Quality and Reliability of Audited Financial Statements: Evidence from Libya
International Conference on Business Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Engineering (ICOBIEE2013) , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies