Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Charity Involvement and Corporate Performance in Promoting Stakeholders' Interest

59 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Jingwen Zhang

Nyenrode Business University

Eddy Cardinaels

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management; KU Leuven

Yu Flora Kuang

University of Melbourne

Date Written: November 12, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether CEOs of S&P 1500 firms who are involved with charity outside of their daily jobs are more committed to advancing the interests of various stakeholders. We show that firms led by CEOs with charity involvement are associated with higher corporate socially responsible (CSR) performance. Furthermore, these CEOs consistently influence other corporate matters to enhance the interests of stakeholders. More specifically, we find that firms led by CEOs with charity involvement are less likely to be involved in financial misreporting, and that these CEOs provide higher-quality management forecasts about their firms' future performance. We also demonstrate that firms with an imminent need to improve CSR performance or reporting quality have a greater incentive to appoint CEOs involved in charity. A battery of tests show that our findings are related to the prosocial identity of these CEOs rather than to strategic firm-level motivations or CEOs' desire to advance their social status. Overall, CEOs who engage with charitable organizations exhibit consistent prosocial behavior in decision-making.

Keywords: CEO charity involvement, prosocial identity, CSR, financial reporting, disclosure quality, management forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Jingwen and Cardinaels, Eddy and Kuang, Yu, CEO Charity Involvement and Corporate Performance in Promoting Stakeholders' Interest (November 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5083365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5083365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
765,896
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies