Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Ai Strategies Affect Corporate Fraud in Manufacturing Firms: Substantive or Symbolic?

27 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025

xie liu fang

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Zhengbo Peng

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Xiaoge Tong

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Abstract

This study selects A-share listed manufacturing companies in China that used both types of AI strategies from 2013 to 2022 as the research sample, and explores how different AI strategies impact corporate fraud based on motivation theory. The study finds that the use of symbolic AI encourages corporate fraud, with this effect being particularly pronounced in regions with low digital policy attention and in firms facing high financing constraints. In contrast, substantive AI has no direct effect on corporate fraud.Further research reveals that strategic AI can facilitate long-term corporate behavior by enhancing two mediating factors: internal accrual-based earnings management and external investor attention. Additionally, the internal and external mediation effects are moderated by non-standard audit opinions, which weaken the role of strategic AI in promoting corporate fraud through enhanced accrual-based earnings management and increased external investor attention.

Keywords: Substantive AI, Symbolic AI, Corporate Fraud, Non-standard Audit Opinion, Accrual Earnings Management, Investor attention

Suggested Citation:

fang, xie liu and Peng, Zhengbo and Tong, Xiaoge, How Do Ai Strategies Affect Corporate Fraud in Manufacturing Firms: Substantive or Symbolic?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5084971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5084971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
G J Bologna , R J Lindquist
Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting: New Tools and Techniques Posted: 1995
P M Dechow , W Ge , C Schrand
Predicting material accounting misstatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 82 Posted: 2011
S A Richardson , R Sloan , A I Tuna
The implications of accounting distortions and growth for accruals and profitability
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 713 - 743 Posted: 2006
M C Jensen , W H Meckling
Theory of the firm: Managerial behavior, agency costs, and ownership structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
640,233
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies