Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation Limits and Executive Turnover

Posted: 21 Feb 2025

Vikram K. Nanda

University of Texas at Dallas - School of Management - Department of Finance & Managerial Economics

Sabatino Silveri

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Kun Wang

Tsinghua University

Le Zhao

Nankai University

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

We explore the consequences of limiting executive pay on voluntary executive turnover by exploiting a Chinese government policy restricting executive pay at a subset of f irms. Affected firms experience an increase in voluntary executive turnover, with executives increasingly moving to firms not bound by the pay policy. Executives that leave are of higher quality as suggested by their stronger stock and accounting performance in the year prior to the turnover. Affected firms suffer firm value losses, especially when talented executives leave. Our findings demonstrate the importance of compensation contracts in retaining executives and suggest a need for regulatory caution, since mandated constraints aimed at trying to “fix” executive pay can hurt firm value and ultimately, hurt shareholders.

Suggested Citation:

Nanda, Vikram K. and Silveri, Sabatino and Wang, Kun and Zhao, Le, Executive Compensation Limits and Executive Turnover (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5085667
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies