Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does auditor quality enhance CSR disclosure?

Forthcoming at Accounting and Business Research

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-203

62 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Yanping Xu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Date Written: December 27, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the relation between auditor quality and client firms’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure. Using an international sample of firms from 36 countries over the period 2009-2018 and a measure of the extent of CSR disclosure from Bloomberg, we find strong evidence that client firms with higher quality auditors provide more CSR disclosure. In cross-sectional analyses, we show that the relation between auditor quality and CSR disclosure is accentuated when the information environment is poorer and when the financial reporting environment and the legal institutions are weaker. Lastly, we document that firms with higher quality auditors also exhibit better CSR performance. Our study extends the literature by showing that engaging a higher quality auditor has positive benefits that enhance both CSR disclosure and CSR performance.

Keywords: Auditor Quality, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Disclosure, Information Environment, Financial Reporting Environment, Legal Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J. and Xu, Yanping, Does auditor quality enhance CSR disclosure? (December 27, 2024). Forthcoming at Accounting and Business Research, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2025-203, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5085055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5085055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
198,863
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies