Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Age, Executive Gender and Financial Statement Comparability

Advances in Accounting, volume 68, 2025[10.1016/j.adiac.2024.100805]

17 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Shadi Farshadfar

Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University)

Laleh Samarbakhsh

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Ismat Jahan

McMaster University

Date Written: December 24, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the association between chief executive officer (CEO) age and gender and the financial statement comparability of their firm. Our findings indicate that CEO age and gender are positively associated with comparability. We extend the literature by establishing executive age and gender as determinants of comparability. The results are independent of a battery of sensitivity tests, including applying alternative comparability measures, CEO tenure, replacement of older CEOs with younger ones, industry dominance of young CEOs, self-selection bias, and corporate governance measures. Our analysis further suggests that the age and gender of other executives, particularly chief financial officers (CFOs) and the top management team (TMT), impact comparability similarly to those of the CEO.

Keywords: executive age, executive gender, financial statement comparability, upper echelons theory M40, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Farshadfar, Shadi and Samarbakhsh, Laleh and Jahan, Ismat, Executive Age, Executive Gender and Financial Statement Comparability (December 24, 2024). Advances in Accounting, volume 68, 2025[10.1016/j.adiac.2024.100805], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5086107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2024.100805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
772,295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies