Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Ethics: Integrity in Financial Practices

11 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025

Diego Anturiano-Chavez

George Mason University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 28, 2024

Abstract

This research paper explores the importance of ethical principles in accounting, focusing on their roles within the financial systems across the globe. Key topics include ethical challenges faced by accountants, case studies of notable scandals, psychological factors influencing decision-making, and frameworks for ethical behavior in accounting. The research draws on the in depth analysis of accounting practices, psychological theories, and case studies of notable companies. The findings demonstrate that ethical failures often derive from lack of training, cognitive biases, and poor regulations. Solutions such as stronger ethical education, stricter regulation standards, and increased corporate culture are necessary to dissolve these issues. This research underlines the critical role of ethical practices in preserving the integrity of financial reporting and trust from the accounting profession.

Keywords: Accounting, Ethics, Accounting Ethics

Declaration of Interest

My declaration of interest in writing this paper was to focus on my future career in accounting and especially the ethics side of the profession. Also, my interest in writing this paper was to add to my resume for future use and learn more about the four-year college career I'm beginning.

Suggested Citation:

Anturiano-Chavez, Diego, Accounting Ethics: Integrity in Financial Practices (December 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5088888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5088888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
B E Gotberg
The Market for Bankruptcy Courts: A Case for Regulation, Not Obliteration
Brigham Young University Law Review , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 703 Posted: 2024
P J Purcell
The Enron bankruptcy and employer stock in retirement plans
Journal of Pension Planning and Compliance , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 36 - 44 Posted: 2002
R R Sims , J Brinkmann
Enron ethics (or: Culture matters more than codes): JBE
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 256 Posted: 2003
L Sommer
The Influence of International Experience on Bargaining Behavior *
Advances in Decision Sciences , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,911
RANK
190,939
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies