Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Executives with Academic Work Experience, Stakeholder-friendly Engagement, and Firm Value

forthcoming in Abacus (http://doi.org/10.1111/abac.12359)

63 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025 Last revised: 10 Jan 2025

Zhe Li

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Xinrui Liu

University of Greenwich

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

We study the role of top executives' prior academic work experience in stakeholderoriented activities and related capital market benefits. Analyzing data from China, we demonstrate that firms managed by academic-experienced top executives have higher stakeholder-friendly engagement scores than those without such executives. The proportion of executives having academic work experience on the management team is positively linked to stakeholder-friendly activities. Additionally, companies led by academic executives tend to make larger philanthropic donations, adhere to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and produce more extensive corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports. Furthermore, we show that this positive impact is more pronounced in non-state-owned entities, younger firms, those with sufficient cash reserves, and those with larger management teams. Our channel analysis reveals that top executives with academic experience achieve their sustainability goals by actively engaging in employee-friendly activities, customer and supplier protection disclosures, public relations, and internal sustainability system construction. Finally, we demonstrate that firms with improved stakeholder-friendly strategies driven by academic executives exhibit higher future firm value, increased investment in research and development initiatives, and attract more financial analyst coverage.

Keywords: Academic work experience, analytical and discursive reasoning skills, aspirational corporate social responsibility, capital market benefits, ethics, substantive stakeholder-oriented policies

Declaration of Interest

None.

Ethics Approval

None.

Funder Statement

The authors are grateful for the personal research allowance and SBM Small Grant provided by Queen Mary University of London.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhe and Liu, Xinrui, Top Executives with Academic Work Experience, Stakeholder-friendly Engagement, and Firm Value (January 01, 2020). forthcoming in Abacus (http://doi.org/10.1111/abac.12359), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5092105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5092105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
D B Audretsch , E Lehmann
Entrepreneurial access and absorption of knowledge spillovers: Strategic board and managerial composition for competitive advantage
Journal of Small Business Management , volume 44 , p. 155 - 166 Posted: 2006
J B Barney , R E Freeman , J S Harrison , R A Phillips , J B Barney , R E Freeman , J S Harrison , R A Phillips
Stakeholder Theory*
The Cambridge Handbook of Stakeholder Theory , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 2019
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst Coverage and Intangible Assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies