Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Board Committee and Tax Disclosure

60 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025 Last revised: 21 Jan 2025

gianluca ginesti

University of Naples Federico II

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Date Written: January 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) board committees and tax disclosure. Using a unique hand-collected dataset from CSR board committees of European-listed companies, we provide several important contributions. First, we document that the presence of a CSR board committee is positively associated with tax disclosure. Second, we find that the membership of Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) on a CSR board committee is negatively associated with tax disclosure, while CSR board committees chaired by a female director are associated with increased levels of tax disclosure. We also show that firms with CSR board committees whose members have higher educational backgrounds are associated with enhanced tax disclosure levels. Additional analyses indicate that companies with better tax disclosure transparency are less likely to engage in aggressive tax avoidance strategies. All these results support the importance of a CSR committee, as well as its members' characteristics, for corporate transparency and more effective market discipline.

Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation.

Keywords: CSR Committees, Board Committees, Corporate Governance, Tax Disclosure, Tax Reporting. JEL Classification: M14, M41, G34, C33, C34

Suggested Citation:

ginesti, gianluca and Campa, Domenico, Corporate Social Responsibility Board Committee and Tax Disclosure (January 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5092529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5092529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
R B Adams , J De Haan , S Terjesen , H Van Ees
Board diversity: moving the field forward
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 77 - 82 Posted: 2015
S M Adnan , D Hay , C J Van Staden
The influence of culture and corporate governance on corporate social responsibility disclosure: A cross country analysis
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 198 , p. 820 - 832 Posted: 2018
R Appuhami , S Tashakor
The impact of audit committee characteristics on CSR disclosure: An analysis of Australian firms
Australian Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 400 - 420 Posted: 2017
C Arena , S Bozzolan , G Michelon
Environmental reporting: Transparency to stakeholders or stakeholder manipulation? An analysis of disclosure tone and the role of the board of directors
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 346 - 361 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
692,403
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies