Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Text as Treatment from Financial Reports: Effects of Natural Hazard Risk on Firm Profitability Using Causal Machine Learning

22 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Minh Nguyen

Florida Atlantic University

Ting-Tsen Yeh

Louisiana State University, Shreveport

Yuanzhang Xiao

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Shirley Daniel

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 10, 2025

Abstract

Measuring the impact of natural hazards and disasters on firm performance at the firmlevel is crucially challenging when the real data is not available. We overcome this challenge by using novel unstructured textual data exploited from financial filings named Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Specifically, this study explores text in Form 10-Q and Form 10-K filings to construct three natural hazard risks, which play the roles as three types of treatment: continuous, binary, and multiple treatments. We then employ these three treatments together with various econometric and causal machine learning methods to estimate causal effects of natural hazard risks on return on assets (ROA), which is a proxy for firm profitability. To do that we employ the natural hazards data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), firm's characteristics from Compustat database, and Form 10-Qs and Form 10-Ks from the EDGAR database. The results show that natural hazard risks negatively affect ROA. Also, causal effects of natural hazard risks measured in Form 10-Qs are similar yet distinct compared to those in the case of Form 10-Ks. The results imply that firms are negatively affected not only by real natural disasters and hazards as shown in the literature but also by the perception of natural hazard measured by natural hazard risk in financial reports like Form 10-Ks and Form 10-Qs. The text mining techniques and causal machine learning methods used in this work can be leveraged to apply to many other studies especially sustainability, green finance, and other related fields.

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Minh and Yeh, Ting-Tsen and Xiao, Yuanzhang and Daniel, Shirley, Text as Treatment from Financial Reports: Effects of Natural Hazard Risk on Firm Profitability Using Causal Machine Learning (January 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5093225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5093225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
S Athey , S Wager
Estimating treatment effects with causal forests: An application
Observational Studies , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 51 Posted: 2019
G Bellstam , S Bhagat , J A Cookson
A text-based analysis of corporate innovation
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 7 , p. 4004 - 4031 Posted: 2021
L Breiman
Random forests
Machine Learning , volume 45 , p. 5 - 32 Posted: 2001
R A Cazier , R J Pfeiffer
Why are 10-K filings so long? Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
RANK
432,018
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies