Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Partnership Shares and Transfer Pricing on Company Profits and Profit Sharing in an Integrated Business

9 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Namik Kemal Uyanik

Verta Financial Consulting and Auditing Inc.

Date Written: April 16, 2014

Abstract

Partnerships can be made as a vertically integrated business form. It needs to have a series of transfer prices in place to determine the profitability of each segment of its business to manage its decision-making and appropriately reward its partners. In the international context of partnerships, setting transfer prices has become a lightning rod for tax authorities worldwide because of the opportunity to shift profits among the entities. In our article, we show the effects of partnership interest and transfer pricing on company profits and profit sharing in an integrated business model described below. Throughout our analysis, we will try to display the impact of transfer pricing on the profit distributions and partnership shares. 

Suggested Citation:

Uyanik, Namik Kemal, The Impacts of Partnership Shares and Transfer Pricing on Company Profits and Profit Sharing in an Integrated Business (April 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5093407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5093407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies