Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FIRM ATTRIBUTES AND VOLUNTARY INFORMATION DISCLOSURES AMONG CONSUMER GOODS COMPANIES IN NIGERIAN EXCHANGE GROUP

Accounting and Management Review (AMAR) Vol. 4 No. 2. Pp. 12-22 Sept 2024.

11 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2025

Dozie Okodo

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 04, 2024

Abstract

The study examines firm attributes and voluntary information disclosures among consumer goods companies listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX). Several firm attributes such as firm size, profitability, firm age, and leverage, distinguish companies and as such could influence varying differences of voluntary information disclosures among companies. This may have accounted for the vacillating nature of findings of prior studies. The study employs the positivist research philosophy, deductive research approach and the longitudinal research design. The study use secondary data from the annual report of listed consumer goods companies from 2012 to 2021. The study takes a census of the entire twenty one (21) consumer goods companies listed on the NGX as of 2021. However, the study could only access a complete data set for twenty (20) companies. The panel regression technique is utilise for the analysis. The result show that firm size and leverage exhibit positive significant relationship with voluntary information disclosure while profit exhibits positive insignificant relationship with voluntary information disclosure. In conclusion, the positive signs of the variables indicate their conformity to theoretical expectations and their role in driving voluntary information disclosure among consumer goods companies listed on the NGX.

Keywords: Firm characteristics, Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX), Voluntary Disclosures, Stakeholder theory, Signalling theory, Agency theory, Non-financial disclosure, Firm attributes

Suggested Citation:

Okodo, Dozie Benedict, FIRM ATTRIBUTES AND VOLUNTARY INFORMATION DISCLOSURES AMONG CONSUMER GOODS COMPANIES IN NIGERIAN EXCHANGE GROUP (April 04, 2024). Accounting and Management Review (AMAR) Vol. 4 No. 2. Pp. 12-22 Sept 2024., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5094432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5094432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies