Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability reporting quality in the face of the board of directors

34 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: January 11, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of the board of directors on sustainability reporting quality (SRQ) in Nigerian publicly traded companies from 2009 to 2023. The research seeks to uncover how board characteristics such as gender diversity, independence, and size influence sustainability disclosures' quality. Employing a longitudinal research design, this study utilizes panel data collected from annual reports and sustainability disclosures of 17 firms across various industries. The data analysis uses a fixed effects regression model to account for firm-specific heterogeneity and temporal variations. Findings reveal that board gender diversity, independence, and size in sustainability-related areas significantly enhance SRQ. The originality of this research lies in its integration of agency and resource dependence theories to explain the mechanisms through which board dynamics influence SRQ. The comprehensive dataset spanning over a decade enhances the generalizability of the findings and provides nuanced insights into the contextual dependencies of these effects. This study contributes to the growing literature on corporate governance and sustainability by offering actionable recommendations for policymakers and corporate stakeholders aiming to improve SRQ through effective board compositions.

Keywords: board gender diversity, board independence, board size, sustainability reporting quality JEL Codes C31, C38, C51, C87, M43, M48

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

None

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Sustainability reporting quality in the face of the board of directors (January 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5094168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5094168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
165 References
M Abbas , O A Yahaya , S Abbas , O A Yahaya
Audit committee and financial statement fraud likelihood
International Journal of Management, Economics, and Social Sciences , volume 13 , issue 5 Posted: 2023
K Abdullahi , R Musa , O A Yahaya
Are CEOs hedge against share price fall?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 243 - 263 Posted: 2023
M Abdullahi , O A Yahaya
The impact of corporate governance on corporate social responsibility disclosure
Research in Management in Accounting , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 221 - 252 Posted: 2024
M Abubakar , O A Yahaya
Which corporate owners are relevant in reducing earnings management? Finance, Accounting, and Economic Insights , volume 9 , p. 16 - 75 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
998
RANK
195,121
8 Citations
165 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies