Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Congress, Foreign Policy & Financial Reporting

38 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2025

Chase Potter

Washington State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

I examine the economic consequences of expanding the scope of financial disclosure to include a foreign policy objective. I use the disclosure requirements of Iran Threat Reduction Act of 2012 (ITRA), which attempts to isolate Iran by forcing SEC issuers to disclose ties with Iranian-affiliated entities, as my empirical setting. I find ITRA disclosures impose penalties on firms who do business with Iran along several dimensions: (i) Iran revenue declines by 70 percent following implementation, (ii) ITRA disclosure generates negative abnormal returns and (iii) institutional ownership declines. I also document other unintended consequences of ITRA disclosures. I find that foreign issuers are more likely to delist from U.S. exchanges following ITRA disclosures and domestic issuers’ increase their contributions to political action committees. Overall, the evidence suggests that adapting securities regulation to serve political objectives, while effective at achieving those objectives, also entails unintended consequences.

Keywords: Iran, political costs, Disclosure, Foreign Policy

Suggested Citation:

Potter, Chase, Congress, Foreign Policy & Financial Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5094107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5094107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R G Alexander
Iran and Libya Sanctions Act of 1996: Congress Exceeds Its Jurisdiction to Prescribe Law
Wash. & Lee L. Rev , volume 54 Posted: 1997
A L Anderson
Good Grief; Iran Sanctions and the Expansion of American Corporate Liability for Non-US Subsidiary Violations under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012
Nw. J. Int'l L. & Bus , volume 34 Posted: 2013
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-Based Causal Inference in Corporate Finance and Accounting Research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
B Baik , O Even-Tov , R Han , D Park
The Real Effects of Supply Chain Transparency Regulation: Evidence from Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 587 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies