Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political ideology shapes reporting regulation: SEC commissioners' views on IFRS for U.S. issuers

Forthcoming in the Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting

28 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025 Last revised: 21 Feb 2025

Kirstin Becker

Copenhagen Business School

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Christoph Pelger

University of Passau; University of Innsbruck; NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 09, 2025

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) initiated rulemaking steps toward adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for U.S. issuers in 2007, but it never issued a final decision. In this paper, we use public material and interviews to examine the links between commissioners' political ideology and their views on IFRS. We find that differences in political ideologies pervaded the debate on IFRS. In line with their belief in the advantages of "free markets," Republican commissioners supported a move to IFRS, particularly in the form of giving U.S. firms a choice between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. Democratic commissioners were more reluctant to partly or fully replace the well-established system of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles with IFRS, a step that was considered tantamount to deregulation and accompanied by concerns about the International Accounting Standards Board's governance. Our findings highlight the influence of political ideology on the regulatory process related to reporting issues. Thus, bipartisan rulemaking becomes unlikely in times of pronounced political confrontations, as recently evidenced by the SEC's rule on climate-related disclosures.

Keywords: Ideology, Democrats, Republicans, IFRS, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, U.S. reporting regulation, Interviews

Declaration of Interest

No potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.

Ethics Approval

The authors received their institutions’ ethics approval for conducting this research.

Funder Statement

Holger Daske and Christoph Pelger gratefully acknowledge funding from the German Research Foundation (DFG) under the CRC TRR 266 program (“Accounting for Transparency”), Project‐ID 403041268.

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Kirstin and Daske, Holger and Pelger, Christoph and Zeff, Stephen A., Political ideology shapes reporting regulation: SEC commissioners' views on IFRS for U.S. issuers (January 09, 2025). Forthcoming in the Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5095239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5095239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Mary L Schapiro (i)
SEC Chairs Christopher Cox (R) Posted: 2005-08
A Luis , Aguilar (d)
Posted: 2008-07
Annette Nazareth , (d)
Posted: 2005-08
B Elisse , Walter (d)
Posted: 2008-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies