Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mastering Digital Transformation: Insights into Trends, Challenges, and Strategic Opportunities 

Tekle, K. C., Kumar, K. N. S. (2024). Mastering Digital Transformation: Insights into Trends, Challenges, and Strategic Opportunities. J Invest Bank Finance, 2(1), 01-08.

8 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2025

Kiflu Chekole Tekle

Central China Normal University

Dr.Kotha Naga Siva Kumar

GradXs Global Education

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

The concept of digital transformation is described as an agent of change that has the potential to revolutionize industries through the transformation of how organizational processes work and how they engage with their various stakeholders. The main trends, challenges, and opportunities associated with digital technologies such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and big data are identified in this review. In particular, the global COVID-19 pandemic has only increased the use of these tools and stresses the importance of organizations' ability to adapt to the current market environment. Despite that, many segments remain challenged by the lingering remnants of pre-digital technological infrastructures, new concerns about the privacy and security of information put in computers, and new requirements for more advanced technological literacy than ever before. Additionally, the future of digital transformation has concerns linked with the speed of technological development and the changing requirements of organizations. Internet intelligence and machine learning coupled with the Internet of Things (IoT) and edge computing, 5G and block chain are some of the trends in which industry standards are altered. To optimize these opportunities, it is therefore necessary for organizations to secure their technologies and, if possible, their talents; this will apply more especially with growing trends in the technological world of the 21st century.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, Trends, Opportunity, Challenges

Suggested Citation:

Chekole Tekle, Kiflu and Siva Kumar, Dr.Kotha Naga, Mastering Digital Transformation: Insights into Trends, Challenges, and Strategic Opportunities  (February 12, 2024). Tekle, K. C., Kumar, K. N. S. (2024). Mastering Digital Transformation: Insights into Trends, Challenges, and Strategic Opportunities. J Invest Bank Finance, 2(1), 01-08., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5095338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5095338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
R Chaudhuri , S Chatterjee , D Vrontis
Digital transformation of the organisations using AI integrated partner relationship management
Business advancement through technology Volume I: Markets and marketing in transition , p. 21 - 45 Posted: 2022
Y Y K Chen , Y L Jaw , B L Wu
Effect of digital transformation on organisational performance of SMEs: Evidence from the Taiwanese textile industry's web portal
Internet Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 186 - 212 Posted: 2016
M Shehadeh , A Almohtaseb , J Aldehayyat , I A Abu-Alsondos
Digital transformation and competitive advantage in the service sector: a moderated-mediation model
Sustainability , volume 15 , issue 3 Posted: 2023
N Vaz
Digital business transformation: How established companies sustain competitive advantage from now to next Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
RANK
759,678
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies