Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Ratification of Financial Statements: Earnings Quality, Shareholders’ Dissent, and its Consequences

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7242-24

48 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2025

Naman Desai

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Birendra K. Mishra

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Siddharth Purohit

University College Dublin (UCD) - UCD School of Business

Date Written: December 14, 2024

Abstract

Employing a novel setting where shareholders vote on the adoption of annual financial statements, this study examines the relationship between shareholders’ voting dissent and the quality of reported earnings using actual data of institutional and retail shareholders’ votes in over 4,400 annual general meetings (AGM) of Indian firms. The results indicate that the percentage of dissent by institutional shareholders varies inversely with the earnings quality of the firms. In contrast, retail shareholders’ dissent is influenced by the firm’s financial performance but not earnings quality. In addition, we find that the negative relationship between earnings quality and institutional dissent is more pronounced in firms with higher incentives to manipulate earnings, such as those with younger listing ages, higher market-to-book ratios, high stock return volatility, and in firms with foreign institutional investment, showing a strengthened governance focus by institutional investors in these contexts. More importantly, the results indicate that institutional dissent acts as a disciplining mechanism on managerial actions and results in superior earnings quality in the year subsequent to the dissent. Institutional dissent is also linked to negative stock market reaction, future auditor and top management resignations in the following year. Thus, institutional dissent serves as a monitoring, disciplining, and correcting mechanism.

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Naman and Kothari, S.P. and Mishra, Birendra K. and Purohit, Siddharth, Shareholder Ratification of Financial Statements: Earnings Quality, Shareholders’ Dissent, and its Consequences (December 14, 2024). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7242-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5097739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5097739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
676
RANK
568,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies