Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Companies' Strategic Reviews: Determinants and Outcomes

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Jenny Zha Giedt

George Washington University - School of Business

Date Written: January 16, 2025

Abstract

A company's review of strategic alternatives is a market-moving event indicating that the company seeks to sell itself in a merger or acquisition. First, I show the immense significance and uncertainty brought on by the event, with spikes in absolute stock returns (9%), trading volume (8 times the normal volume), and short selling volume (12 times the normal volume). Second, I demonstrate that certain corporate governance mechanisms can prompt leaders to launch a strategic review. Third, I document the previously unknown outcomes that result from strategic reviews, including sales or mergers, divestitures, firm failures, leadership changes, and dividend terminations, and develop predictive models for each outcome. This study is important because it establishes the preemptive role of strategic reviews in materially altering companies’ trajectories and helps company leaders and other stakeholders evaluate and anticipate the potential outcomes.

Keywords: strategic alternatives, corporate governance, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy, executive turnover, financial policy, shareholders

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G33, G34, G35, M12

Suggested Citation:

Zha Giedt, Jenny, Companies' Strategic Reviews: Determinants and Outcomes (January 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5100005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
736
RANK
584,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies