Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Performance Measures

Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

36 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Edgar Rodriguez-Vazquez

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2025

Abstract

GAAP-based financial reports contain a multitude of performance measures such as revenue, earnings, earnings per share, and cash from operations. Managers also frequently voluntarily provide “alternative” performance measures (APMs), which may allow for more precise or unique insights about the company and are often unique to a company’s industry. These APMs include summary measures of past performance (adjusted earnings, EBITDA, free cash flow), efficiency ratios (sales per square feet, revenue per airline mile), and demand metrics (bookings, customer retention). It is important to understand that APMs can be used strategically by management, especially given that they are less uniform than GAAP metrics, and subject to less monitoring. This chapter is intended to help you understand the holes that APMs fill, as well as to help you get a sense for both the benefits and the costs of incorporating APMs into your decision-making.

Keywords: Alternative performance measures, Key performance measures, Non-GAAP metrics

Suggested Citation:

McVay, Sarah E. and Rodriguez-Vazquez, Edgar and Toynbee, Sara and Whipple, Benjamin C., Alternative Performance Measures (January 11, 2025). Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5100282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
218,186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies