Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fragility of Green Financing: Evidence from Proprietary Loan Assessment Data

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/028

55 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2025 Last revised: 22 Apr 2025

Meng Lyu

Wuhan University - Economics and Management School

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: January 17, 2025

Abstract

Using a proprietary loan-level dataset from one of China’s largest banks, we analyze how politicians’ needs to grow the local economy influence the bank’s green loan decisions. Our findings reveal that while individual bank branches account for borrowers’ environmental risks, this consideration diminishes significantly when government officials have incentives to prioritize local economic growth. This effect is particularly pronounced in regions with greater reliance on polluting industries, among state-owned enterprise borrowers, and in areas with a history of government market intervention. We also observe that the bank extends more loans to local companies under these circumstances, and such regions exhibit subsequent GDP growth and increased emissions. These findings underscore the tension between green financing and economic growth objectives, revealing that economic expansion often takes precedence over environmental considerations.

Keywords: Green financing, Proprietary loan assessment data, Political incentives, China, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Lyu, Meng and Yang, Yong George and Yoon, Aaron and Yuan, Hongqi, Fragility of Green Financing: Evidence from Proprietary Loan Assessment Data (January 17, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/028, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5100828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Alok , M Ayyagari
Politics, state ownership, and corporate investments
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 7 , p. 3031 - 3087 Posted: 2020
D Amiram , I Gavious , C Jin , X Li
The economic consequences of firms' commitment to ESG policies Posted: 2021
C E Bai , C T Hsieh , Z M Song
The long shadow of a fiscal expansion Posted: 2016
C E Bai , J Lu , Z Tao
The multitask theory of state enterprise reform: Empirical evidence from China
American Economic Review , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 357 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
502,079
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies