Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Firm Value: International Evidence on the Role of CSR Assurance

65 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Ahrum Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

LAN JIN

Hong Kong Baptist University

Zabihollah Rezaee

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Gaoguang (Stephen) Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law; Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU); Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: January 18, 2025

Abstract

A growing number of companies around the world have started publishing corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports. However, the sustainability literature remains inconclusive as to whether CSR assurance enhances the credibility of these reports, improves stakeholder trust, and ultimately boosts firm value. Analyzing a global sample of 39,776 firm-year observations from 2002 to 2019, we present robust evidence that CSR assurance positively influences investors’ valuation of CSR efforts. Furthermore, auditor-provided CSR assurance is found to have a greater impact on CSR valuation in countries where institutions are more conducive to opaque financial reporting. Our analysis further reveals that improved financial performance and better financial reporting quality are the main mechanisms behind this effect. Finally, the impact of CSR assurance is found to be more significant in countries with weaker legal institutions and CSR norms.

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Ahrum and JIN, LAN and Rezaee, Zabihollah and Zhou, Gaoguang (Stephen),

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Firm Value: International Evidence on the Role of CSR Assurance

(January 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5102722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5102722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
O Akisik , G Gal
Integrated reports, external assurance, and financial performance: An empirical analysis on North American firms
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 350 Posted: 2020
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
B Ballou , P C Chen , J H Grenier , D L Heitger
Corporate social responsibility assurance and reporting quality: Evidence from restatements
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 188 Posted: 2018
N Bhattacharya , F Ecker , P M Olsson , K Schipper
Direct and mediated associations among earnings quality, information asymmetry, and the cost of equity
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 482 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
RANK
297,230
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies