Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Charge-Offs and Bad Loans Concealment in Banking

58 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2025

Xincheng Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Qiang Li

University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, School of Management and Economics

Jun Hu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph Zhang

Bowling Green State University

Abstract

Banks routinely charge off non-performing loans (NPLs) to dispose of bad loans, but discretionary charge-offs may window-dress reported loan quality. Using a sample of 182 Chinese banks, this study documents that banks strategically use discretionary charge-offs to conceal NPLs rather than resolving them, and that regulatory pressures, particularly capital adequacy requirements, and public scrutiny are identified as the key drivers for this behavior. This concealment behavior is more prevalent in larger banks, those with recent top-executive changes, and banks facing higher audit pressure. Our findings suggest that regulators should meticulously balance NPL ratio regulations with the disposal process management in the banking sector.

Keywords: Commercial banks, Non-performing loan (NPL), NPL disposal, Discretionary charge-off

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Xincheng and Li, Qiang and Hu, Jun and Zhang, Joseph, Strategic Charge-Offs and Bad Loans Concealment in Banking. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5102768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5102768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies