Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit firm attributes and income smoothing: the moderating influence of audit committee accounting expertise

18 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Abubakar Karaye

Tishk International University

Hussaini Bala

Kaduna State University, Nigeria; Tishk International University Erbil

Ghousia Khatoon

Tishk International University

Date Written: September 27, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates how audit committee accounting expertise (ACAE) influences the relationship between audit firm attributes (AUFA) and income smoothing (IS). The study employed 616 firm-year observations from 2013 to 2019 and robust  logistic regression as a data analysis technique. The results showed that audit fees (AUF) are likely to decrease IS. The study also found that Big 4 auditors and audit tenure (AUT) might not reduce the likelihood of IS. Interestingly, Big 4 auditors and AUT had a negative and significant relation with IS in firms with a higher proportion of ACAE. The  study revealed that a higher proportion of ACAE overturned the positive effect of Big 4 auditors and AUT on IS. The study provides a unique understanding of the moderating effect of ACAE on the link between AUFA and IS. The study makes distinctive contributions by exploring the moderating effect of ACAE on the link between AUFA and IS practices in Nigeria. Previous studies on income manipulation generally focus on accrual earnings; this study provides an insight into earnings manipulation through artificial smoothing indices. Policymakers and investors can benefit from the study’s findings in formulating policies or decisions about corporate financial reporting issues. The study is limited to nonfinancial firms; therefore, the study’s findings may not apply to financial firms.

Keywords: Audit firm attributes, Income smoothing, Audit committee accounting expertise

Suggested Citation:

Karaye, Abubakar Balarabe and Bala, Hussaini and Khatoon, Ghousia, Audit firm attributes and income smoothing: the moderating influence of audit committee accounting expertise (September 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5103101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5103101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
363
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies