Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposed Conceptual Framework for the Effect of Female Representation in the Board and Statutory Audit Committee on Creative Accounting Practice

10 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Abubakar Karaye

Tishk International University

Hussaini Bala

Kaduna State University, Nigeria; Tishk International University Erbil

Armaya'u Sani

Federal University Dutsin‐Ma - Centre for Entrepreneurship Development

Mujeeb Saif Mohsen Al-Absy

Assistant Professor, Gulf University

Abdurrahman Adamu Pantamee

Federal University of Kashere

Date Written: October 16, 2024

Abstract

The concept of equity is central to the gender issue, which commands a lot of attention. Given the aforementioned, a measure regarding gender equality and equal chances for women was suggested by the Nigerian lawmaking body in 2011. This study therefore proposed a conceptual framework for the effect of female representation in the board and statutory audit committee (AC) on creative accounting practice in Nigerian listed companies. According to the study, the presence of female directors and statutory AC will likely discourage creative accounting practices in listed Nigerian companies. The study’s conclusions will contribute to the body of empirical data that regulators and decision-makers in Nigeria may utilize to inform policies regarding gender-related concerns and audit partner rotation. Future studies can examine our proposed framework in different emerging economies

Keywords: Female, Board, Audit committee, Creative accounting

Suggested Citation:

Karaye, Abubakar Balarabe and Bala, Hussaini and Sani, Armaya'u and Mohsen Al-Absy, Mujeeb Saif and Adamu Pantamee, Abdurrahman and Adamu Pantamee, Abdurrahman, Proposed Conceptual Framework for the Effect of Female Representation in the Board and Statutory Audit Committee on Creative Accounting Practice (October 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5103128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5103128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies