Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping Corporate Governance: Exploring the Adaptation of Regulatory Frameworks in African Markets

19 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Abubakar Karaye

Tishk International University

Date Written: December 18, 2024

Abstract

This study aims to provide a comprehensive review of the sources of corporate governance regulations in Africa, by examining their origins and adaptation within the context of diverse African markets. While acknowledging the influence of regulatory frameworks from developed countries, this study focuses on the unique challenges and dynamics shaping corporate governance practices in the African markets. To achieve this aim, an in-depth analysis of key regulatory sources and their implementation across various African nations was done by reviewing the literature and the regulatory frameworks. The study shed light on the interplay between global standards and local realities, focussing on the evolving corporate governance landscape in Africa. By synthesizing existing literature and empirical insights from 2018 to 2023, the study offers valuable perspectives, emphasizing the need for tailored approaches that address continental disparities, challenges, and national culture in the adoption of corporate governance regulations across diverse African jurisdictions

Keywords: Corporate Governance Africa, Emerging Markets Governance, Governance Adaptation, Governance Compliance in Africa, Regulatory Framework

Suggested Citation:

Karaye, Abubakar Balarabe, Mapping Corporate Governance: Exploring the Adaptation of Regulatory Frameworks in African Markets (December 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5103133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5103133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies