Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Human Resources Practices in Indonesian Family-owned Listed Companies

14 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025 Last revised: 22 Jan 2025

Iwan Suhardjo

University of Canterbury; Universitas International Batam

Meiliana Suparman

Universitas Internasional Batam

Date Written: November 21, 2024

Abstract

Given Indonesian family-owned companies’ significant economic role contribution and the increasing emphasis on sustainability, understanding sustainable human resource practices is crucial. This study investigates how leading Indonesian family-owned listed companies integrate these practices into their sustainability strategies and performance and compares their approaches with non-family-owned companies. Using a stakeholder theory lens and ethical sustainability governance framework, analyzing their sustainability reports, and comparing them with non-family-owned companies, we aim to understand the unique role of family control and governance in shaping sustainable human resource practices in Indonesia. Our findings suggest that while family-owned companies acknowledge the importance of sustainable human resource practices, their approach is driven by external regulatory pressures, resulting in limited measures for employee engagement and training. This indicates a lack of integration between dynamic capabilities and a change behavior approach to sustainability as proposed by Suhardjo et al. (2024a). Non-family-owned companies, on the other hand, tend to adopt a more systematic approach, prioritizing training and conducting regular employee surveys. This study extends the previous research of Gunawan and Koentjoro (2023). This study contributes to the literature on family-owned businesses and sustainable human resource practices, highlighting the need for a strategic approach to sustainable human resources in family-owned companies.

Keywords: Family-Owned Company, Sustainable Human Resource Practice, Stakeholder Theory, Ethical Sustainability Governance, Sustainability Strategy and Performance

Declaration of Interest

The Authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.

JEL Classification: M12, M14, M50, M54

Suggested Citation:

Suhardjo, Iwan and Suparman, Meiliana, Sustainable Human Resources Practices in Indonesian Family-owned Listed Companies (November 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5104015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5104015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
785,362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies