Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Externalities and Accounting Standardization

41 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Zeqiong Huang

Yale School of Management

Korok Ray

Texas A&M University

Yun Zhang

George Washington University

Date Written: December 12, 2024

Abstract

Firms' information disclosure is a public good: When firm fundamentals are correlated, one firm's information can benefit others in making better decisions. Without regulation, firms fail to internalize the benefits of their disclosure and underproduce information. To address this, firms may resort to integration (become devisions of a combined firm and let the headquarters set the level of information production) or accounting standardization (remain independent and let the regulator set a uniform information production level). We find that integration's flexibility enhances investment efficiency ex post, but also leads divisions to overinvest ex ante. Accounting standardization can curb free-riding incentives and improve investment efficiency. Overall, our results suggest accounting standardization addresses information externalities and affects the optimal boundaries of the firm.


Suggested Citation:

Huang, Zeqiong and Ray, Korok and Zhang, Yun, Information Externalities and Accounting Standardization (December 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5104146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5104146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Anat , Paul Admati , Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2000
G Angeletos , A Pavan
Efficient use of information and social value of information
Econometrica Posted: 2007
J Kenneth , Arrow
Vertical integration and communication
The Bell Journal of Economics , p. 173 - 183 Posted: 1975
Qi Chen , Tracy R Lewis , Katherine Schipper , Yun Zhang
Uniform versus discretionary regimes in reporting information with unverifiable precision and a coordination role
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 153 - 196 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
682,509
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies