Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Political Ideology, Gender Diversified Boards, and Integrated Reporting (IR): Some Australian Evidence

101 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2025

Sidharth Murthy

Murdoch University

Dr Ferdinand Gul

University of the Sunshine Coast

Ratna Paudyal

University of the Sunshine Coast

Abstract

This study investigates whether the political preferences and ideology of CEOs are linked to integrated reporting (IR). IR is defined as the way companies communicate how their strategies, governance, performance, as it relates to the environment, contribute to their future values. CEOs political leanings are identified in terms of the firm’s donation to either the Liberal National Party (like the US Republican party), or the Australian Labor Party (like the US Democratic party). Our results show that firms led by Liberal National Party (LNP) inclined CEOs are negatively associated with IR and that this relationship is weaker for firms with more female directors on the company's board consistent with the view that females board members are more inclined to support sustainability activities.

Keywords: Integrated reporting, CEO (Chief Executive Officer) political ideologies, corporate political donations, board gender diversity, Liberal National Party, Australian Labor Party

Suggested Citation:

Murthy, Sidharth and Gul, Dr Ferdinand and Paudyal, Ratna, CEO Political Ideology, Gender Diversified Boards, and Integrated Reporting (IR): Some Australian Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5105817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5105817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies