Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Income Taxes and Payout Policy: Evidence from U.S. State-Level Tax Changes

75 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Casimir Carl

University of Bielefeld

Peter Limbach

University of Bielefeld; Centre for Financial Research (CFR)

Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes

SKEMA Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: January 02, 2025

Abstract

We document for the first time how firms adjust their payout policy in response to changes in U.S. state-level corporate income tax rates. When taxes rise, firms engage in a “payout switch” from share repurchases to dividends, while keeping total payouts unchanged. Dividend increases are mostly carried out by firms with lower stock returns to legislative events leading up to tax-increasing bills, better ability to pass tax hikes to customers and workers, lower financial constraints and investment opportunities, higher investor payout demand, and worse governance structures. In contrast, the average firm does not respond to tax cuts. The evidence is consistent with imperfect capital markets models, particularly those relying on agency, suggesting that firms’ payout policy aims to balance the tax disadvantage of retained earnings and funding needs in the face of financial constraints imposed by investors.

Keywords: Corporate income taxes, Payout policy, Dividends, Share repurchases, Imperfect capital markets, Asymmetric information, Agency

JEL Classification: G35, H25, H32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Carl, Casimir and Limbach, Peter and Lopez-de-Silanes, Florencio, Corporate Income Taxes and Payout Policy: Evidence from U.S. State-Level Tax Changes (January 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5106131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5106131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
164 References
J Atanassov , X Liu
Can corporate income tax cuts stimulate innovation
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 1415 - 1465 Posted: 2020
A J Auerbach
Share valuation and corporate equity policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 305 Posted: 1979
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
M Baker , J Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
521,283
164 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies