Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Critical Analysis of Tertiary Education Tax in Nigeria

14 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2025

Oluwatofunmi Ogunlana

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: January 11, 2025

Abstract

The Tertiary Education Tax refers to the revenue that is generated by the Government from organizations with the primary purpose of funding the tertiary education. It deals with the tax imposed on the profits of companies operating in Nigeria, to fund tertiary education. The main objectives of this research was to do a critical analysis of the tertiary education and to examine the act that deals with this phenomenon and to also check how the fund is being regulated and managed. The method used in this research is the doctrinal method, through the use of documentary sources and statutes and relevant articles and the reviewing of relevant laws pertaining to the subject matter. The legal ambiguities contained in the Tertiary Education Tax Act 2011 has posed a lot of issues with regards to what the tax is being used for and the slight punishment that was prescribed makes compliance seem optional. Additionally, the Nigeria Tax Bill 2024, which has yet to be enacted into law still has certain issues it has yet to address. From the findings the question posed to answer includes what is the tax that is being collected for educational institutions used for, whether the fund is being used for the appropriate purpose and whether private institutions should also benefit from the education tax. From all these questions and more, it is recommended that unless there are measures taken to increase transparency and accountability such as regular audits industry and there is promotion of collaboration with industries some of these problems would continue to persist.

Suggested Citation:

Ogunlana, Oluwatofunmi,

Critical Analysis of Tertiary Education Tax in Nigeria

(January 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5107207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5107207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Guest Writer
What the Education Tax is doing in Nigeria's Public Tertiary Institutions' The Cable (Abuja, September 6 2022) <What the education tax is doing in Nigeria's public tertiary institutions Posted: 2024-11-01
Tertiary Education Trust Fund Act , volume 7 , issue 3 Posted: 2011
Guest Writer
What the Education Tax is doing in Nigeria's Public Tertiary Institutions' The Cable (Abuja September 6 2022) <What the education tax is doing in Nigeria's public tertiary institutions Posted: 2024-11-01
Mckenzie Baker
International Guide on Criminalization of Tax Offences' (Baker McKenzie Posted: 2023-04-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,947
RANK
753,521
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies