Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resistance to Accounting Use for Decision-Making: The Narrative of 'True and Fair' in a Brazilian Family Firm

19 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2025

Danilo Gomes Curcio

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

WELINGTON CARNEIRO

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

Jose Carlos Tiomatsu Oyadomari

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

Carlos Cristiano Poltronieri

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

Octavio Ribeiro de Mendonça Neto

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

Abstract

This study aims to understand why accounting data do not constitute the primary source of information for decision-making in a family business (FB) firm. We used a qualitative case study of an FB firm in Brazil and a pragmatic interview-based approach to conducting our analysis. We add to prior studies by offering practical implications for understanding why some practices are institutionalised. We propose that the actors' firm rejected accounting as a decision-making tool because the routines were accepted and deeply institutionalised. The accountants naturally assume a role as bean counters, providing data for external stakeholders. In this sense, the source of strategic information that flows within the firm, creating the notions of what is 'true and fair,' did not arrive from the formal accounting system. The employees' minds and previous experiences were reliable information used by the senior leadership. The narratives of the 'true' information are reliable because only one is informally provided by the employees as tacit knowledge. Our study contributes to previous studies by highlighting that although management accounting (MA) has been studied and taught in universities as the primary source of data on decision-making, the practitioners—mainly the senior leadership and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)—still prefer to adopt epistemic methods for control and take a strategic decision on their business creating an alternative narrative (outside MA dominant discourse) what is 'true and fair.'

Keywords: Organisational changes, institutional logics, family firms, management accounting changes, Pragmatism

Suggested Citation:

Gomes Curcio, Danilo and CARNEIRO, WELINGTON and Tiomatsu Oyadomari, Jose Carlos and Poltronieri, Carlos Cristiano and de Mendonça Neto, Octavio Ribeiro, Resistance to Accounting Use for Decision-Making: The Narrative of 'True and Fair' in a Brazilian Family Firm. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5107070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5107070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
864,457
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies