Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prosecutorial Tools in Corporate Bribery: NPA, DPA, Jailing Executives, and Monitoring

110 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

GuyChristian Agbor

DERISKING ADVISORY / Global Association of Certified Anti-illicit Financial Flows (GACAIFFP)/ African Society for Corporate Compliance et Ethics (ASCCE)

Date Written: May 08, 2024

Abstract

This paper  evaluates the pros and cons of four prosecution tools against corporations. The tools
encompass (1) Non-Prosecution Agreements and Deferred Prosecution Agreements, (2) criminal
indictments and the consequent jailing of executives, (3) independent corporate monitors, and (4)
ithe increase in excluded costs post-deferred prosecution agreement as a disincentive to bribery in
future dealings with the government. Addressing these four tools comprehensively may provide a
reasonable basis for the DOJ and DC to maximize gains against corporations under the recent and
heightened scrutiny of corporate bribery prosecution.

Suggested Citation:

Agbor, GuyChristian, Prosecutorial Tools in Corporate Bribery: NPA, DPA, Jailing Executives, and Monitoring (May 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5107861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5107861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
147 References
( Bnp Paribas , Iran Doj ; Sudan , Cuba
BNPP agreed to a global settlement with the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and several U.S. state and federal government agencies, including the DOJ, the New York County District Attorney's Office, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and the Department of Financial Services of the State of New York. This month's sentencing is part of BNPP's agreement with the DOJ to plead guilty to the IEEPA and TWEA charges and pay $8.9 billion, representing the proceeds derived from the transactions. In addition to its federal criminal conviction, BNPP pleaded guilty in the New York State Supreme Court to falsifying business records and conspiring to falsify business records
The French bank agreed to a $8.9 billion settlement and pleaded guilty to violating U.S. sanctions against , volume 54 Posted: 2014-06
See Id
See Id
Inc
Agrees to Pay $64 Million in Criminal Penalties and Disgorgement to Resolve FCPA Charges Related to Bribery of Gaddafi-Era Libyan Officials Posted: 2018-06-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
RANK
798,750
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies