Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D intensity, development costs’ capitalization intensity and stock returns: a variance decomposition analysis

European Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2025 Last revised: 28 Jan 2025

Dimos Andronoudis

Fathom Financial Consulting; University of Bristol - Department of Finance and Accounting

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: January 23, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the value relevance of R&D intensity and development costs’ capitalization intensity under IFRS, by gauging their contribution to the informational components of the volatility of unexpected returns. We use a multivariate time-series approach that can be reconciled to a log-linear valuation model by also accommodating time-varying discount rates. Our results show that R&D intensity has a significant positive impact upon the variance contribution of cash flow and accrual news to the variance of unexpected returns. Thus, R&D intensity indeed conveys value relevant information about shocks to both future operating cash flows and accruals. We also show that this association is stronger as the capitalization intensity of development costs increases, but only for accrual news. Overall, the return decomposition that we employ shows the channel through which the return variation related to R&D and development costs’ capitalization intensity occurs. Additional analysis shows that our results are not driven by country level growth option risk but are weaker in countries with higher uncertainty avoidance. This study contributes to the R&D and return variance decomposition strands of the literature and raises policy implications by providing evidence in favour of development costs’ capitalization. 

Keywords: R&D intensity, capitalization intensity, IFRS, variance return decomposition

Declaration of Interest

No personal or financial relationship with other people or organizations that may have or could be perceived to have influenced their study.

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Andronoudis, Dimos and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis, R&D intensity, development costs’ capitalization intensity and stock returns: a variance decomposition analysis (January 23, 2025). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5108640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5108640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
568,026
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies