Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' affirmations related to IFRS: A note on changes over two decades

19 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2025

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 24, 2025

Abstract

In many jurisdictions, audit reports on financial statements which comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB (IASB-IFRS) do not affirm that. Some do not refer to IFRS at all. This Note up-dates a study of audit reports related to the first year of widespread adoption of IFRS. After nearly two decades, the audit reports in five major countries show even less affirmation of IASB-IFRS than before. In the UK, audit reports on large listed companies contain six different types of affirmation. Policy recommendations follow.

Keywords: IFRS as issued by the IASB, IFRS as adopted in the EU, audit affirmations

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Stadler, Christian and Zeff, Stephen A., Auditors' affirmations related to IFRS: A note on changes over two decades (January 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5109834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5109834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
632
RANK
618,599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies