Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Compete Agreements and Capital Structure Decisions

47 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Bektemir Ysmailov

Nazarbayev University

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of changes in the enforceability of non-compete agreements (NCAs) on capital structure decisions. Using a novel dataset of NCA enforceability reforms across U.S. states from 1992 to 2013, I employ a difference-in-differences methodology to establish that following an increase in the enforceability of NCAs, firms decrease their leverage. The findings are consistent with the managerial career concerns hypothesis: by restricting outside employment opportunities, heightened NCA enforceability increases managers’ aversion to risk and financial distress, prompting more conservative capital structures. Cross-sectional evidence underscores the coexistence of both career concerns and proprietary information protection channels within the same empirical setting. This study provides robust evidence of how labor market frictions influence corporate financing policies, offering new insights into the interplay between managerial incentives and capital structure decisions.

Keywords: leverage, labor mobility, career concerns, agency conflicts, trade secrets

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J24, J40, K31

Suggested Citation:

Ysmailov, Bektemir, Non-Compete Agreements and Capital Structure Decisions (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
R S Arnow-Richman
Bargaining for Loyalty in the Information Age: A Reconsideration of the Role of Substantive Fairness in Enforcing Employee Noncompetes. Or
L. Rev , volume 80 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
RANK
631,426
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies