Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and the Boundary of the Firm: Evidence from Relationship-Specific Investments

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

60 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2025 Last revised: 26 May 2025

Jarrad Harford

University of Washington; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xing Li

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Jiaren Pang

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Haibin Wu

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Liu Zheng

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: November 27, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the role of social capital in mitigating hold-up problems along the supply chain. We hypothesize that social capital, as captured by the strength of cooperative norms and the density of social networks, constrains opportunistic behavior and improves cooperation in mutual relationships. Consistent with the hypothesis, we find that supplier firms are more willing to make relationship-specific investments (proxied by their citations to customers’ patents) when transacting with customers headquartered in high social capital areas. This effect is more pronounced when the potential for expropriation by the customer is greatest: when the supplier has a weak bargaining position, faces high asset specificity, or the customer is in poor financial condition. Additional analyses indicate that suppliers with high social capital customers generate more non-tradable patents, share greater technological overlaps, and demonstrate stronger R&D comovement with their customers. Furthermore, high social capital firms are less vertically integrated and are more likely to form trading relationships with each other. We also find that trading relationships with high social capital customers last longer, and those customers are less likely to pass on negative shocks to their suppliers, further supporting the argument that customers’ social capital alleviates the hold-up concern of their supplier firms. 

Keywords: Social Capital, Relationship-Specific Investment, Supply Chain, Incomplete Contract, Hold-Up Problem

JEL Classification: G32, M14, K12

Suggested Citation:

Harford, Jarrad and Li, Xing and Pang, Jiaren and Wu, Haibin and Zheng, Liu, Social Capital and the Boundary of the Firm: Evidence from Relationship-Specific Investments (November 27, 2021). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
J Bena , K Li
Corporate Innovations and Mergers and Acquisitions
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 1923 - 1960 Posted: 2014
S T Bharath , T Shumway
Forecasting Default with the Merton Distance to Default Model
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1339 - 1369 Posted: 2008
T Bourveau , J D Kepler , G She , L L Wang
Firm Boundaries and Voluntary Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 4 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2024
J Butler , P Giuliano , L Guiso
Trust and Cheating
The Economic Journal , volume 126 , issue 595 , p. 1703 - 1738 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
451,432
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies