Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AAOIFI/FAS vs. IASB/IFRS: A Comparative Analysis of Financial Reporting in Islamic Financial Institutions

20 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Muhammad Hamdan Shafieq Ahmad

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Date Written: January 28, 2025

Abstract

Accounting and reporting of assets and liabilities by Islamic financial institutions under two competing financial reporting regimes—International Accounting Standards Board/International Financial Reporting Standards (IASB/IFRS) and the Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions/Financial Accounting Standards (AAOIFI/FAS)—result in inconsistent information content. This inconsistency stems from the unique challenges of aligning Shariah principles with conventional accounting practices. The application of IFRS to Islamic financial transactions does not fully align with the values inherent in Islamic contracts. This paper explores the complexities involved in reporting Islamic financial transactions under the AAOIFI/FAS and IASB/IFRS frameworks, focusing on their compatibility with Islamic finance principles. The study examines 19 Islamic banks in Bahrain (which apply the AAOIFI/FAS financial reporting regime) and 16 Islamic banks in Malaysia (which apply the IASB/IFRS financial reporting regime). It was observed that uniform reporting practices are employed by Islamic banks in both Bahrain and Malaysia. Therefore, the study focuses on a representative Islamic bank for each jurisdiction: Bahrain Islamic Bank represents Islamic banks in Bahrain, while Bank Islam Malaysia Berhad represents Islamic banks in Malaysia.
A comprehensive review of the literature reveals a gap in applying 'neutral' accounting standards to religious-based transactions, such as Islamic financial contracts. This paper explores the reporting dilemmas faced by Islamic banks, specifically comparing the application of IFRS 9 to sale-based, equity-based, and rental-based Islamic financial contracts. It critically examines the discrepancies between Shariah principles and conventional standards, highlighting the need for specialized guidelines to ensure compliance with Shariah principles. The examination covers the recognition of financial assets and liabilities, noting that the diverse values of Islamic contracts based on their type are diminished when these contracts fit the amortized cost's 'Solely Payment of Principal and Interest (SPPI)' test. Additionally, the study found that the application of the 'substance over form' principle by Islamic banks under the IASB/IFRS financial reporting regime produces conflicting accounting and reporting practices compared to the AAOIFI financial reporting regime. Moreover, it was found that Islamic banks under the AAOIFI financial reporting regime introduced a new category called Quasi Equity for Unrestricted Investment Accounts (UIAs), shifting the recognition of UIAs from liability under the IASB/IFRS regime to this new category. This reclassification acknowledges the unique nature of UIAs, which do not fit neatly into the categories of liability or equity.
Finally, the paper proposes ways to overcome these challenges and enhance the alignment of Islamic finance principles with accounting standards. Regulatory bodies, Shariah scholars, accounting professionals, and other stakeholders should seriously address this issue and embark on concerted efforts to resolve these dilemmas. Stakeholders should exercise caution when examining and interpreting data from the financial statements of Islamic banks globally.

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Ahmad, Muhammad Hamdan Shafieq, AAOIFI/FAS vs. IASB/IFRS: A Comparative Analysis of Financial Reporting in Islamic Financial Institutions (January 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5114167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5114167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,535
RANK
189,110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies