Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Corporate Sustainability: An Examination of Corporate Governance Mechanisms in Malaysian Islamic Banking

21 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Rabiah Mohammed

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 28, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the moderating role of Shariah Committees on the relationship between Board of Directors (BOD) attributes and Corporate Sustainability Performance (CSP) in Islamic banks in Malaysia. The need for sustainable practices has led businesses to integrate sustainability agendas into their core strategies, including Islamic banks. Malaysia, a leader in Islamic finance, has a robust regulatory framework supporting Shariah-compliant practices. However, the influence of BOD attributes on CSP within Islamic banks, and how the Shariah Committee moderates this relationship, remains underexplored. The study employed panel regression analysis using data extracted from the published annual reports of sixteen (16) licensed Islamic banks spanning a five-year period (2018-2022). The analysis revealed a significant positive relationship between board size and CSP, suggesting that larger boards with diverse perspectives can enhance sustainability strategies. However, the relationship between board independence and CSP was positive but statistically insignificant. Furthermore, the study found a significant negative relationship between board gender diversity and CSP, possibly due to the underrepresentation of women in leadership positions. This underscores the importance of promoting gender diversity for improved sustainability performance. The Shariah Committee size was not found to effectively moderate the relationship between any of the BOD attributes and CSP. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the committee's influence on sustainability practices within Islamic banks. This finding offers valuable insights for Islamic banks and regulators in Malaysia aiming to improve their sustainability performance. It highlights the significance of board composition, particularly board size and gender diversity, in driving sustainability practices. The study suggests that organizing training programs to enhance the Shariah committee's expertise in sustainability principles and practices can significantly improve their ability to guide the board towards more sustainable practices within Islamic banks. One limitation of the study was the lack of readily available Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) rating data for almost all Islamic banks. However, an ESG index was generated using annual reports, which may have missed certain aspects captured by established ESG rating methodologies. 

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Mohammed, Rabiah, Enhancing Corporate Sustainability: An Examination of Corporate Governance Mechanisms in Malaysian Islamic Banking (January 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5114277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5114277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
702,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies