Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital and Islamic Banks

Posted: 27 Mar 2025

Syaima Adznan

Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Malaysia

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Date Written: January 28, 2025

Abstract

The Islamic banking industry has undergone significant transformation over the last five decades and gained a share of the global banking industry. A report published by IFSB (2020) showed that the total global Islamic banking assets amounting to US$1.74tn by the end of the year 2019 with a return on equity (ROE) of 11.67%, which is greater than those recorded by conventional banks. This growth signifies a growing awareness and wider market acceptance of Islamic banking solutions. However, to sustain a healthy double-digit growth of Islamic banks would require capability to innovate and offer distinctive value propositions to their stakeholders. The ability to capitalize on their intellectual capital and disclose this practice provides a justifiable innovation to support their strategic growth. Intellectual capital (IC) refers to the value of a bank’s knowledge that provides its competitive advantage.

Suggested Citation:

Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain and Adznan, Syaima and MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Mohamad, Shamsher, Intellectual Capital and Islamic Banks (January 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115011
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
193
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies