Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Sukuk Credit Rating: Evidence from Issuing Firms in Malaysia

10.1108/JIABR-05-2022-0127

Posted: 28 Mar 2025

Mahmoud Homssi

Independent

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Date Written: January 28, 2023

Abstract

Purpose-This study aims to examine the determinants of Sukuk credit ratings of issuing firms in Malaysia, and the rating changes from lower to higher rating and vice versa. 



Design/methodology/approach-A total of 328 Sukuk issuances and 1,110 Sukuk rating announcements from 2009 to 2014 were analysed using generalized ordered logit regressions approach. Firm financial characteristics, corporate governance attributes, macroeconomic factors and Sukuk structures (debt or equity based) were among the important determinants used to explain the different Sukuk credit ratings. 


Originality/value-This study examines the determinants of Sukuk credit rating of issuing firms in Malaysia, which include not only the listed firms but also the unlisted firms.

Keywords: Sukuk, Credit rating, Governance, Sukuk structure Paper type Research paper

Suggested Citation:

Homssi, Mahmoud and Mohamad, Shamsher, Determinants of Sukuk Credit Rating: Evidence from Issuing Firms in Malaysia (January 28, 2023). 10.1108/JIABR-05-2022-0127, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115932
 Not Available for Download
46 References
Ab Majid , H Shahimi , S Abdullah , M H S B
Sukuk defaults and its implication: a case study of Malaysian capital market
th International Conference on Islamic Economics and Finance , p. 19 - 21 Posted: 2011
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Abdul Halim , Z
Capital market imperfections and corporate sukuk: issuers' motivations and the role of sukuk certifiers Posted: 2016
M Abulgasem , A Elhaj , N Aini , N Mazna
The influence of corporate governance, financial ratios, and sukuk structure on sukuk rating
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 31 , p. 62 - 74 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies