Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconciling Global and Shariah-Based Accounting Standards: IFRS vs. AAOIFI in Islamic Finance

23 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Mustafa (Dilshod) Tuychiev

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Date Written: January 29, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the ongoing harmonization efforts between International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) standards, highlighting the key differences and challenges in their application to Islamic finance transactions. AAOIFI is actively reviewing its standards to identify and remove deviations that do not conflict with IASB, aiming to align the two frameworks more closely. Despite these efforts, significant differences remain in the classification, recognition, measurement, and presentation of Islamic finance products. The IASB's Islamic Finance Consultative Group (IFCG) continues to address the complexities of applying IFRS to Islamic finance. Research indicates that while some differences can be managed with additional disclosures, other fundamental differences, such as the impermissibility of discounting monetary items and the recognition of profits and losses from specific Islamic financial instruments, pose challenges for Islamic Financial Institutions (IFIs) reporting under IASB. The paper also highlights the inadequacies of IASB Standards (i.e. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)) in fully addressing the unique characteristics of Islamic financial transactions and the need for a dedicated accounting framework to ensure Shariah compliance. Moreover, the study underscores the importance of factors beyond accounting standards in ensuring Shariah compliance, such as the composition and reputation of the Board of Directors, Shariah Supervisory Board, and the implementation of Shariah audits. Concerns about the reliability of AAOIFI standards and the lack of expertise among preparers and reviewers further complicate the issue. To bridge the gap between IFRS and AAOIFI, the paper suggests several steps, including allowing IFIs to reflect the form and risk profile of Islamic finance transactions in their reporting and engaging jurisdictions where IFRS is mandatory to promote wider acceptance of Islamic finance transactions. While achieving full convergence between AAOIFI's FAS and IFRS is challenging, opportunities for further harmonization exist, which could minimize the gaps between the two frameworks and enhance the integrity and reliability of financial reporting for Islamic finance.

Keywords: IASB, IFRS, AAOIFI, Islamic Finance, Shariah Compliance, Financial Reporting, Harmonization, Accounting Standards, Financial Instruments

Suggested Citation:

Tuychiev, Mustafa (Dilshod) and MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN, Reconciling Global and Shariah-Based Accounting Standards: IFRS vs. AAOIFI in Islamic Finance (January 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5115905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Aaoifi
AAOIFI: Financial Accounting Standard 28 'Murabaha and Other Deferred Payment Sales
AAOIFI: Financial Accounting Standard 24 'Investments in Associates Posted: 1996
Aaoifi
Financial Accounting Standard 30 'Impairment, Credit Losses and Onerous Commitments Posted: 2017
Aaoifi
AAOIFI: 'Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
Financial Accounting Standard 33 'Investment in Sukuk, Shares and Similar Instruments' (2018) Posted: 2019
M F Abdul Khir
The Concept of the Time Value of Money: A Shariah Viewpoint'
The International Shariah Research Academy for Islamic Finance Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori
Revenue Recognition of Islamic Financial Institutions: The Curious Choice of Applying IFRS 9 Over IFRS 15 in Accounting for Trade-Based Contracts
8 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 165
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,287
RANK
171,534
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies