Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Audit Clients' Stakeholders Prompt Auditor Leniency?

41 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025 Last revised: 1 Oct 2025

Kendall Bowlin

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

LaToya Flint

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Jeremy R. Richardson

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Ben W. Van Landuyt

University of Arizona

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

Beyond primary stakeholders such as investors and creditors, companies respond to secondary stakeholders such as community members and employees. Whether or not secondary stakeholders play an active role in influencing companies’ operational decisions is typically irrelevant to external auditors’ judgments about companies’ financial statements and internal controls. However, in an experiment with 220 practicing auditors, we find that auditors are sometimes more lenient toward their clients when clients’ secondary stakeholders exhibit a high level of agency through efforts to actively influence the clients’ operations. This leniency only arises if auditors view secondary stakeholders as having a relatively more legitimate interest in client-related outcomes. We identify audit regulators’ recently completed, and proposed, changes to auditing standards on evaluating clients’ noncompliance with laws and regulation (NOCLAR) as a practical example of making audit clients’ secondary stakeholders appear more legitimate to auditors, setting the stage for more lenient audit judgments. 

Keywords: Stakeholder Legitimacy, Stakeholder Agency, Auditor Leniency, NOCLAR

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bowlin, Kendall O. and Flint, LaToya and Richardson, Jeremy and Van Landuyt, Ben W., When Do Audit Clients' Stakeholders Prompt Auditor Leniency? (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5116791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5116791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
K Aaltonen , K Jaakko , O Tuomas
Stakeholder salience in global projects
International Journal of Project Management , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 509 - 516 Posted: 2008
M D Alicke
Culpable control and the psychology of blame
Psychological Bulletin , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 556 - 574 Posted: 2000
M D Alicke , J Buckingham , E Zell , T Davis
Culpable control and counterfactual reasoning in the psychology of blame
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 1303 - 1433 Posted: 2008
M D Alicke , D Rose
Culpable control and causal deviance
Social and Personality Psychology Compass , volume 6 , issue 10 , p. 723 - 735 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
658
RANK
682,509
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies