Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dare to Say No? Externalities of Employee Employment Protection on Financial Misreporting

58 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Jackie Zeyang Ju

University of Kentucky

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 15, 2024

Abstract

Rank-and-file employees often succumb to fraudulent directives from managers, participating in financial misreporting schemes. However, our understanding of the factors that empower employees to resist such directives remains limited. Many U.S. states have adopted wrongful discharge laws (WDLs) to enhance employee protection against unjust dismissals. We exploit this judicial setting to investigate the impact of employee employment protection on financial misreporting. Our findings reveal a substantial decrease in the likelihood of financial misreporting among firms operated in states with WDLs compared to those in other states. This decline becomes evident one year after WDL adoption and persists in subsequent years. In addition, we demonstrate that firms near one side of a state border governed by WDLs exhibit lower likelihood of financial misreporting and lower tendencies for accounting irregularities compared to firms near the opposite side of the border without WDLs. Our mechanism analyses suggest the mitigating effects operate through empowering employees to resist management’s misreporting requests and curbing managers’ tendency to solicit collusion from employees. In summary, our results highlight the positive externalities of employee employment protection within the financial reporting ecosystem, shedding light on an important factor that can deter corporate fraud and promote financial reporting integrity.

Keywords: rank-and-file employees, managers, wrongful discharge law, good-faith exception, employee employment protection, financial misreporting

JEL Classification: M2, M4, L5, G3

Suggested Citation:

Ju, Jackie Zeyang and Li, Chan and Xie, Hong, Dare to Say No? Externalities of Employee Employment Protection on Financial Misreporting (December 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5116433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5116433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M A Abernethy , C Hung , L Jiang
2024. Managers' career preferences and corporate culture
Contemporary Accounting Research forthcoming
V V Acharya , R Baghai , K Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
C S Armstrong , D F Larcker , G Ormazabal , D J Taylor
The relation between equity incentives and misreporting: The role of risk-taking incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
RANK
436,820
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies