Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Regulatory Fragmentation: Evidence from Product Quality Failures

56 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Md Imran Hossain

University of Queensland - School of Business

Dewan Rahman

University of Queensland - Business School

Suman Neupane

University of Queensland

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how regulatory fragmentation leads to product quality failures, measured by product recalls. Exploiting a hand-collected comprehensive dataset of recalls by the U.S. public firms from 1996 to 2023 and a text-based firm-specific measure of regulatory fragmentation, we provide novel empirical evidence that firms facing fragmented regulations are more likely to experience product quality failures. Specifically, our results show that a one-standard deviation increase in regulatory fragmentation is associated with approximately 516 additional recalls. Our findings are robust to endogeneity concerns, supported by a quasi-natural exogenous shock-based difference-in-difference design, as well as several robustness checks and alternative explanations. Further analyses show that the adverse effects of regulatory fragmentation are stronger for firms with broader scope, greater product market competition, and higher policy uncertainty. Finally, we document that fragmented regulations contribute to product quality failures by weakening quality culture, reducing R&D investment, and lowering patent quality.

Keywords: Fragmentation, Product Quality, Quality Failure, Recall, Regulation, Regulatory Fragmentation, Product Recall, product quality failures

JEL Classification: E22, G18, G28, G31, G38, L15

Suggested Citation:

Imran Hossain, Md and Rahman, Dewan and Neupane, Suman and Neupane-Joshi, Suman, The Cost of Regulatory Fragmentation: Evidence from Product Quality Failures (September 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5116857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5116857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
G S Becker
A theory of competition among pressure groups for political influence
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 98 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 400 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
418,259
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies