Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communicated ethical identity disclosure (CEID) of Islamic banks under the AAOIFI and IFRS accounting regimes: a global evidence

DOI 10.1108/JIABR-01-2021-0013

23 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Mohamed Anouar Gadhoum

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Ziyaad Mahomed

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 30, 2022

Abstract

Purpose-This paper aims to assess the ethical disclosure of Islamic banks (IBs) under different accounting regimes and to ascertain whether the adoption of an Islamic accounting standards (Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions [AAOIFI]) promotes the practice of ethical disclosure. Design/methodology/approach-An ethical identity disclosure index was developed to serve as a benchmark to assess the level of the communicated ethical identity disclosure (CEID) of 47 IBs over 18 countries using annual reports. Findings-The findings suggest that, overall, there is poor ethical disclosure practices and even banks that had some initiatives towards disclosures had no proper reference to benchmark for effective implementation of ethical reporting standards and had no plans for ethical and socially responsible schemes. There was no evidence to suggest that IBs that adapted the religious-based accounting regime (AAOIFI) had better levels of ethical disclosure. Research limitations/implications-Though poor practices of CEID are expected to increase reputational risks and the likelihood of loss of religious conscious customers and investors' confidence and therefore market share and performance in the long-term, the current practice does not concur with this expectation. Furthermore, since there is no evidence to support the notion that the adoption of AAOIFI standards would support greater initiatives towards level of ethical identity disclosures, a mandatory requirement for effective disclosure through enforcement of AAOIFI's financial reporting standards, specifically with regard to ethics and social and environmental commitment is needed. Practical implications-In addition to introducing commonly accepted regulatory and supervisory guidelines and best practices that cater for the specificities of Islamic banking could significantly improve the level of CEID of IBs. In addition, the standardization of ethical (non-financial) reporting practices of IBs through guidelines and key performance indicators will facilitate CEID practices of IBs. Originality/value-This paper contends that for Islamic bankers, ethics is an entrenched part of the business practice and should mitigate unethical behaviour, more so with the additional filter of Sharīʿah supervisory boards. Even if there are such practices due to ineffectiveness of Sharīʿah committees, management pressure to meet performance expectations and competitive pressures from peers in the conventional banking sector, it will not be in the interest of the banks to report them. Keywords (CEID) Communicated ethical identity disclosure, Religious-based accounting regime, Religious-neutral accounting regime Paper type Research paper

Suggested Citation:

Gadhoum, Mohamed Anouar and Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain and Mohamad, Shamsher and Mahomed, Ziyaad, Communicated ethical identity disclosure (CEID) of Islamic banks under the AAOIFI and IFRS accounting regimes: a global evidence (June 30, 2022). DOI 10.1108/JIABR-01-2021-0013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5117345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5117345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M A Adnan , N M Arifin
Local shariah banks wary of offering Qard Hassan , p. 18 - 29 Posted: 2010
J Al-Sulaiti , A Ousama , H Hamammi
The compliance of disclosure with AAOIFI financial accounting standards: a comparison between Bahrain and Qatar Islamic banks
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 549 - 566 Posted: 2018
Z Aribi , S Gao
Corporate social responsibility disclosure: a comparison between Islamic and conventional financial institutions
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 72 - 91 Posted: 2010
R T Ariss , Y Sarieddine
Challenges in implementing capital adequacy guidelines to Islamic banks
Journal of Banking Regulation , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 59 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
386
RANK
772,295
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies