Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
View from practice: Stock market reaction to sukuk credit rating changes in Malaysia

DOI: 10.1002/tie.22066

9 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI

INCEIF UNIVERSITY

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Mahmoud Homssi

Independent

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Documented evidence on conventional bond markets shows negative market reaction to bond credit rating downgrade and no reaction to credit rating upgrade. Despite the fact that sukuk issuances make up more than 58.8% of the value of outstanding bonds in the country and Malaysia issues at least half of the world's sukuk and is widely recognized as a leader in the sukuk space, there is no documented evidence on the stock market reaction to sukuk credit rating changes. This study analyzed the wealth effect of sukuk credit rating changes in Malaysia using 16 sukuk upgrades and 20 sukuk downgrades for the period 2000-2014. The evidence shows negative market reaction to downgrades and positive significant reaction to sukuk rating upgrade. This symmetrical market reaction to sukuk credit rating changes implies the market was indifferent between bonds and sukuk from the credit rating perspective. This finding supports the notion that the credit rating agencies are Shariah-neutral when rating these capital market instruments.

Keywords: credit ratings, Islamic finance, market reaction, sukuk, wealth effect

Declaration of Interest

NA

Ethics Approval

NA

Funder Statement

NA

Clinical Trial Registration

NA

Suggested Citation:

MUHAMAD SORI, ZULKARNAIN BIN and Mohamad, Shamsher and Homssi, Mahmoud, View from practice: Stock market reaction to sukuk credit rating changes in Malaysia (June 30, 2019). DOI: 10.1002/tie.22066, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5117327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5117327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
P Abad-Romero , M D Robles-Fernández
Bond rating changes and stock returns: Evidence from the Spanish stock market
Spanish Economic Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 103 Posted: 2007
Abdul Halim , Z Hassan , M K How , J Verhoeven , P
Certification effects of intermediaries in Islamic bond offerings
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 55 Posted: 2018
A U G Adejoke , T Hassan , S Mohamad , M K Hassan
Is the long term profit rate of Malaysian sukuk a good predictor of short term profit rate?
Capital Markets Review , volume 21 , p. 67 - 87 Posted: 2013
K Ahern
Sample selection and event study estimation
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 466 - 482 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies