Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Issues In Managing Zakat Funds: The Experience of Selected Zakat Management Institutions in Malaysia

6 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2025

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

Technically, zakat means ‘that which purifies’ and is one of the five pillars of Islam that purifies Muslims’ income in a year by donating a fixed portion of it to help the poor and needy. The zakat recipients also purify their hearts from envy, jealousy and anger towards the wealth of the rich. As the third pillar of Islam that addresses the economic inequality gap in a Muslim society, its importance is indicated by the fact that it is mentioned at least 58 times in the Quran, and the potential zakat recipients are clearly identified. The main responsibility of managing the collection and distribution of zakat funds is on the state governments that have set up designated zakat institutions to perform this important religious responsibility. Therefore, there is a need for a proper zakat management system with good governance practices that properly incorporates the attributes of transparency, accountability, efficiency and fairness to ensure that the zakat institutions dispense their responsibilities in the best way possible without fear or favour to assist the poor and the underprivileged. Furthermore, a well-managed zakat institution with proper governance will instil public confidence and trust in these institutions and serve the objectives of zakat as ordained by Allah in the Quran.

Suggested Citation:

Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain and Mohamad, Shamsher, Governance Issues In Managing Zakat Funds: The Experience of Selected Zakat Management Institutions in Malaysia (April 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5117359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5117359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Abd , M Z Majid , Cukai Zakat , Peringkat Kebangsaan Convention
Pemantapan sistem zakat dan cukai ke arah kemajuan ekonomi ummah
PWTC , p. 22 - 24 Posted: 2007-05
S Ahmad , H Wahid , A Mohamad
Penswastaan institusi zakat dan kesannya terhadap pembayaran secara formal di Malaysia
International Journal of Management Studies , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 196 Posted: 2006
M R Alias
The role of zakat institution in alleviating poverty: Malaysian experience
IKAZ International Journal of Zakat , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2008
Berita Harian
Mahkamah Tinggi tolak saman Jamil Khir terhadap NOW , volume 2 Posted: 2016-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,360
RANK
487,089
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies