Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Regulation and ESG Transparency

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 173

65 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025 Last revised: 15 Apr 2025

Charlotte-Louisa Donau

University of Cologne; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

Date Written: January 30, 2025

Abstract

Regulators around the globe are implementing disclosure regulations to improve transparency on ESG (environmental, social, and governance) issues. At the same time, investors and other stakeholders increasingly demand ESG transparency from firms. In light of this demand, we examine the incremental role of disclosure regulation in shaping ESG transparency. Exploiting 56 regulatory events over the last 20 years, we find that disclosure regulation matters most for quantitative environmental information, especially related to externalities. Regulatory transparency effects are most pronounced for smaller firms with poor ESG performance, disclosures, and corporate governance and in countries with strong institutions and weak environmental and social norms. Interestingly, we also document crowding out effects for firms with high voluntary ESG disclosures. Overall, these results are consistent with the notion that disclosure regulation plays a meaningful role in creating ESG transparency where market forces and norms are muted but has nuanced effects when these are strong. 

Keywords: sustainability reporting, ESG, disclosure regulation, transparency

JEL Classification: M41, M48, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Donau, Charlotte-Louisa and Müller, Maximilian A., Disclosure Regulation and ESG Transparency (January 30, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5118805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5118805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Admati References , A R , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
R M Axelrod
The complexity of cooperation. Agent-based models of competition and collaboration Posted: 1997
S P Baginski , L A Hinson
Cost of Capital Free-Riders
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1291 - 1313 Posted: 2016
A Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
477
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,758
RANK
137,237
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies