Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO's Early-life Experience of Disasters and Corporate Environmental Performance

35 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025

Shushu Liao

Kuehne Logistics University

Nhut H. Nguyen

Auckland University of Technology

Cameron Truong

Monash University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the nexus between the early-life disaster experiences of chief executive officers (CEOs) and their firms' environmental performance metrics. We hypothesize that first-hand experience of the adversities of natural disasters in the formative years of a CEO can catalyze a transformation in their environmental cognizance and perspective. This transformation is postulated to have a beneficial influence on their corporations' strategic frameworks for environmental risk mitigation. Our results show that entities steered by CEOs exposed to disasters in their early life have fewer incidences of environmental issues. These findings remain consistent even when controlling for other factors or using alternative methods. We suggest that CEOs with early disaster experience have an enhanced perception of risk ramifications, which inculcates a prudential approach to decision making, potentially heightening the environmental risk profile of their enterprises.

Keywords: CEOs, Disaster, Early-life experience, Environmental performance

JEL Classification: G30, G40

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Shushu and Nguyen, Nhut H. and Truong, Cameron, CEO's Early-life Experience of Disasters and Corporate Environmental Performance (January 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5119231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5119231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
C Arena , G Michelon , G Trojanowski
Big Egos Can Be Green: A Study of CEO Hubris and Environmental Innovation
British Journal of Management , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 316 - 336 Posted: 2018
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military CEOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
G Bernile , V Bhagwat , P R Rau
What Doesn't Kill You Will Only Make You More Risk-loving: Early-life Disasters and CEO Behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 167 - 206 Posted: 2017
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with Style: The Effect of Managers on Firm Policies
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
848,823
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies