Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling the Knot: Organized Labor and the Complexity of CEO Compensation

54 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025 Last revised: 2 Jul 2025

Ryan Flugum

Ohio University - Department of Finance

Stephen P. Ferris

University of North Texas - Department of Finance, Insurance Real Estate and Law

Andrew K. Prevost

University of Vermont

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

We analyze whether labor unions affect the complexity of CEO compensation contracts. We find a positive association between the unionization rate and complexity that is driven by the performance-based components and is robust to alternative measures of union strength. This association arises from the firm's desire to attract talented CEOs with potentially higher contingent pay while also satisfying the union's preference for less discretionary pay. However, we discover that complexity can lead to undesirable future outcomes relating to high complexity. First, greater complexity results in higher future CEO incentive pay, thus contributing to a higher CEO-toemployee pay ratio. Second, increased complexity marginally increases the likelihood of a subsequent work stoppage. Our findings highlight the challenging dynamics of introducing complexity into executive compensation contracting in unionized environments.

Keywords: Organized Labor, Compensation Complexity, Executive Compensation JEL Classification: G30, J31, J33, J51, J52

JEL Classification: G30, J31, J33, J51, J52

Suggested Citation:

Flugum, Ryan and Ferris, Stephen P. and Prevost, Andrew K., Unraveling the Knot: Organized Labor and the Complexity of CEO Compensation (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5120137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5120137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A N Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
O Alolah
CEO compensation complexity: optimal contracts or agency problems
Journal of Financial Research Posted: 2024
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
K Banning , T Chiles
Trade-offs in the labor union-CEO compensation relationship
Journal of Labor Research , volume 28 , p. 347 - 357 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
848,823
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies