Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revenue Recognition of Islamic Financial Institutions: The Curious Choice of Applying IFRS 9 Over IFRS 15 in Accounting for Trade-Based Contracts

8 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Date Written: February 02, 2025

Abstract

As opposed to conventional interest-based lending, Islamic financial institutions (IFIs) are guided by the Shariah principles that emphasize trade, asset backed transactions and risk sharing. Instead, contrary to IFRS 9 (Financial instruments), Islamic contracts i.e. Sales-based, Equity-based, Rental-based contracts are only treated as mere financial instruments under current accounting standards, which are inappropriate for Islamic financial transactions. Such a misalignment has implications for the transparency of financial reporting, the accuracy of reporting and Shariah compliance of such financial reporting. The primary purpose of this study is to analyze the appropriateness of IFRS 9 in Islamic finance, and to provide an argument that IFRS 15 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers) is the most suitable standard for revenue recognition in IFIs. This work highlights a number of important points: (1) IFRS 9 classifies Islamic contracts as Murabaha, Ijarah, and Sukuk as financial assets, not trade transactions causing financial statements to not conform to the real meaning of Islamic contracts; (2) The Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model as defined by IFRS 9 as transferring risk when Islamic finance is commonly known as risk-sharing; (3) Revenue generated in Islamic contracts are from selling or leasing assets, not accruing interest and thus IFRS 15 is more appropriate. (5) IFIs face regulatory pressure to adopt IFRS 9 which conflicts with their trade-based institutional identity; (6) IFIs applying IFRS 9 makes them resemble conventional banks through complex transactions around conventional loan practices that damages their credibility as Islamic financial institutions. (7) By adopting IFRS 15, IFIs would achieve better transparency and fair revenue recognition while reinforcing compliance with Shariah principles. In conclusion, Islamic financial institutions should apply IFRS 15 over IFRS 9 because IFRS 15 accurately reflects the true nature of Islamic financial transactions. Islamic financial institutions need to transition away from financial instrument-based accounting towards revenue recognition standards that align with trade and asset-backed transactions to preserve authenticity and comply with Shariah principles.

Keywords: IFRS 9, IFRS 15, Shariah principles, Islamic Finance, Revenue Recognition

Declaration of Interest

NA

Ethics Approval

NA

Funder Statement

NA

Suggested Citation:

Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain, Revenue Recognition of Islamic Financial Institutions: The Curious Choice of Applying IFRS 9 Over IFRS 15 in Accounting for Trade-Based Contracts (February 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5121163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5121163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Aaoifi
Statement on Sukuk. Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) Posted: 2008
Aossg
Agenda Paper 7.1: Islamic Finance : Work done in 2014 Posted: 2014
A W Dusuki , N I Abdullah
Maqasid al-Shariah, Maslahah, and Corporate Social Responsibility
The American Journal of Islamic Social Sciences Posted: 2007
M El-Gamal
Islamic Finance: Law, Economics, and Practice Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,533
RANK
413,842
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies