Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Extractive Tactics of Institutional Investors Through Levying of Management Fees in the Investees in Malawi

16 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

Institutional investors usually exert significant influence over the investees through injection of significant cash for organic growth of the investees and have the ability to guide the boards towards pursuing profitable business activities and instill effective monitoring mechanisms to reduce the agency cost. The institutional investors do however sometimes act in bad faith by pursuing extractive behaviour where they establish business relationship with the investees and collect management fees on top of the dividends and have unfair advantage over the other numerous insignificant investors. This study tried to explore the possible existence of the institutional investors' extractive behaviour in Malawi. All the sixteen listed companies were analysed together with four financial holding companies supervised by the Reserve Bank of Malawi. The results indicate use of wholly owned subsidiaries to fleece some of the listed companies through substantial management fees which are excessively higher than dividends thereby shortchanging other investors who either receive lower dividend or none. The management fees transactions fall under the related party transactions but there are inadequate safeguards in the Malawi Stock Exchange Listings Requirements 2023 and the Financial Services (2018). It is recommended that management fees must be capped to 10 percent of the dividend and minority shareholders to enforce it.

Keywords: Extractive, Management Fees, Institutional, Investor

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Analyzing Extractive Tactics of Institutional Investors Through Levying of Management Fees in the Investees in Malawi (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5121565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5121565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Canada Bdo
Important consideration when paying management fees Posted: 2022
Jelena Demko-Rihter , Sekerez , P Vojislav , Dejan Spasic , Nevena Conic
The Neglected Focus on Management Aspect of Transfer Pricing Policy in Multidivisional Companies -Case of Serbia
Financial Services (Licensing and Regulatory Requirements for Holding Companies) Directive , volume 11 Posted: 2018
Glenn Graydon , Wright
What Incorporated Business Owners Need to Know About Inter-Corporate Management Fees Posted: 2022
H Gundelach , B B Nielsen
Subsidiary Performance Measurement in International Business Research: A Systematic Review and Future Directions
Journal of Business Research , p. 169 - 114252 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies