Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risks Management and Financial Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

10 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

Risks management have continued to gain attention from various stakeholders and from financial regulatory compliance perspectives. The Basel accord, international standards setting bodies such as IFRS, and various country’s central banks had at one time or the other formulated frameworks for the effective management of risks for banks and other financial institutions across the world. This study investigates the effect of risks management on financial performance of Banks in Nigeria by examining how the independent risk management variables of credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and solvency risk has affected the financial performance of the deposit money banks in Nigeria. This study used the ex-post facto research design, utilising secondary data extracted from a sample of 12 banks covering a period of 10 years from 2013 to 2022 and adopted capital adequacy and firm’s value as measurement for financial performance and thereafter, conducted a pooled OLS multivariate regression analysis. The result revealed that risks management variables have overall positive and significant effect on the financial performance measured with capital adequacy and firm’s value of the bank. Findings also revealed that the price earnings ratio model which proxied firms value is a better predictor of financial performance and thus concludes that proper management of these risk elements would lead to better performance of the banks. Consequently, this study recommends that executive management of banks and financial regulatory bodies should ensure proper adherence to the risk management codes by the banks in other to achieve good financial performance.

Declaration of Interest

No clash of interest to disclosed

Ethics Approval

No clash with ethics

Funder Statement

Self funded

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Risks Management and Financial Performance of Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (February 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5122248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5122248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
T Adesina , T Nasieku , O Oluoch
Market risk hedging strategy and financial performance of Nigeria listed banks
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , issue 15 , p. 100 - 106 Posted: 2020
S O Adeusi , N I Akeke , O S Adebisi , O Oladunjoye
Risk management and financial performance of banks in Nigeria
IOSR Journal of Business and Management (IOSR-JBM) , volume 14 , issue 6 Posted: 2013
R Almarzoqi , S B Naceur , A D Scopellit
How does bank competition affect solvency, liquidity and credit risk? Evidence from the MENA countries Posted: 2015
H Aneta
Government Intervention-restoring or destructing financial stability in the long run? An Unpublished Thesis Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
590
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,104
RANK
105,636
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies