Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Systematic Literature Review of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Research in Africa

This paper has been accepted for publication in Meditari Accountancy Research (DOI: 10.1108/MEDAR-08-2024-2623)

55 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2025

Samuel Karanja Kogi

Curtin University

Ari Budi Kristanto

Satya Wacana Christian University; Curtin University

June Cao

University of Southampton

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-This study examines Africa's Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) research through a systematic literature review. We aim to identify and discuss influential aspects of ESG accounting in Africa, focusing on prominent themes, authors, and journals in published articles using Africa's setting. It also constructs agendas for future research to advance the literature and contribute to the ESG accounting practices in Africa. Research design and methodology-This study uses a systematic literature review (SLR) approach where accounting research journal articles are collated and compiled according to predetermined criteria and analysed using bibliometric techniques. After carefully reviewing 1,387 articles, we selected and examined 246 academic articles published from 2006 to 2024 in 32 accounting journals indexed in the Web of Science (WoS). Findings-We identify four main streams of ESG accounting research in Africa, namely, (1) ESG disclosure in primary-based economies; (2) Corporate governance dynamics in Africa; (3) Internal mechanisms in ESG reporting; and (4) External mechanisms in ESG disclosure. According to our analysis, we propose future research agendas to discuss: (1) Institutional perspective of ESG reporting standards implementation and enforcement; (2) Value creation impact on sustainability performance; (3) ESG reporting effect on conflict resolution; and (4) ESG reporting quality and environmental sustainability. Originality/Value-To the author's knowledge, this study is perhaps the first to examine Africa's ESG research through an SLR. This study contributes to the body of knowledge by providing a comprehensive analysis of the existing ESG accounting landscape and tailoring future research agendas based on the distinctive characteristics of Africa. Research implications-This study assists policymakers, academics, managers, accounting professionals, and investors in comprehensively understanding the current state and projecting future actions to develop ESG accounting in Africa.

Keywords: Systematic literature review, Africa's Environment, Social, and Governance accounting research, Research streams, Research agenda Paper type: Literature review

Suggested Citation:

Kogi, Samuel Karanja and Kristanto, Ari and Cao, June, A Systematic Literature Review of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Research in Africa (February 03, 2025). This paper has been accepted for publication in Meditari Accountancy Research (DOI: 10.1108/MEDAR-08-2024-2623), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5123541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5123541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
236 References
H Abdel-Latif
Fraying threads: exclusion and conflict in Sub-Saharan Africa
IMF Working Papers Posted: 2024
A H Abdifatah , M Anifowose
The trend of integrated reporting practice in South Africa: ceremonial or substantive? Sustainability Accounting
Management and Policy Journal , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 190 - 224 Posted: 2016
A H Abdifatah , M Anifowose
Initial trends in corporate disclosures following the introduction of integrated reporting practice in South Africa
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 399 Posted: 2017
Z Abdul-Baki
The role of accounting in conflicts resolution
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 261 - 279 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,475
RANK
177,635
1 Citations
236 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Climate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies