Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Shields Under Siege: The Effect of Limiting Interest Deductibility on Commercial Lending Terms

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7240-25

61 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2025 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Matthew Phillips

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Zirui Song

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines how tax policy affects syndicated loan terms. Using the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 as a natural experiment, we analyze changes in loan terms for firms facing higher after-tax borrowing costs due to limits on interest deductibility. We find that borrowers most likely to face limited interest deductibility experience a reduction in the interest rate premium they are charged post-TCJA. The rate reduction corresponds to approximately 36% of the estimated increase in the after-tax cost of debt for these borrowers post-TCJA. Importantly, we observe no changes in non-price terms such as covenants, maturities, or collateral requirements. Together, the results suggest that lenders bear a portion of the incidence of tax burdens imposed on borrowers, rather than offsetting reduced interest rates through stricter loan terms. We also find no evidence of changes in the creditworthiness of firms with limited interest deductibility post-TCJA, suggesting that the change in loan spreads is not attributable to changes in borrower fundamentals. Our findings demonstrate that lenders bear a portion of borrowers’ tax burdens, suggesting a novel channel by which tax policy affects debt contracting.

Keywords: private lending, taxes, banking relationships, debt financing

Suggested Citation:

Maydew, Edward L. and Phillips, Matthew and Song, Zirui, Tax Shields Under Siege: The Effect of Limiting Interest Deductibility on Commercial Lending Terms (February 03, 2025). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7240-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5123295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5123295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Richard D Carrizosa , Fabio B Gaertner , Daniel P Lynch
Debt and taxes? The effect of Tax Cuts & Jobs Act of 2017 interest limitations on capital structure
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , p. 35 - 55 Posted: 2023
Sudheer Chava , Michael R Roberts
How does financing impact investment? The role of debt covenants
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 2085 - 2121 Posted: 2008
A J Chen , Matthew Phillips , Regina Wittenberg Moerman , Tiange Ye
Nonfundamental loan renegotiations Posted: 2024
Kimberly A Clausing
Who pays the corporate tax in a global economy?
National Tax Journal , volume 66 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,025
RANK
394,837
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies