Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Cryptocurrency Adoption and Trading Silence before Anticipated Information Events

Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming


20 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2025 Last revised: 4 Feb 2025

Li Gao

State University of New York at New Paltz

Junwoo Kim

Oakland University

Robert Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: January 25, 2025

Abstract

Trading silence, defined as unusually low trading activity, before anticipated firm information events is an important capital market phenomenon which hampers price discovery. Using unique data on firm-level cryptocurrency holdings extracted from the SEC filings, we find that trading silence before quarterly earnings announcements intensifies after a firm's initial adoption of cryptocurrency. Moreover, we find that this effect is stronger for a subsample of firms reporting losses. Our findings are robust to the endogenous concern and to a difference-in-differences design with propensity score matching. Our study suggests that cryptocurrency held by corporations has a significant impact on equity investors' willingness to engage in trading before anticipated firm announcements.

Keywords: Cryptocurrency, Trading volume, Information asymmetry, Earnings announcements. JEL classification: G14

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Li and Kim, Junwoo and Kim, Robert and Kim, Sangwan, Firm-Level Cryptocurrency Adoption and Trading Silence before Anticipated Information Events (January 25, 2025). Applied Economics Letters, Forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5123425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5123425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Aicpa
Accounting for and auditing of digital assets practice aid Posted: 2023
F Akbas
The calm before the storm
Journal of Finance , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 225 - 266 Posted: 2016
J Almeida , T C Gonçalves
A systematic literature review of investor behavior in the cryptocurrency markets
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 37 Posted: 2023
M Angerer , C H Hoffmann , F Neitzert , S Kraus
Objective and subjective risks of investing into cryptocurrencies
Finance Research Letters , volume 40 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies