Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Acquisition Risk: The Critical Role of Indemnification during Merger Contracting

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1059/2025

63 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Patrick Hopkins

Texas Christian University

Audra Boone

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Finance & Real Estate; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Disen Huang Albrecht

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

Failing to adequately uncover, assess, and manage uncertainties and risks in M&As can lead to large financial losses for acquirers. Two key avenues to mitigate acquisition risk are (i) due diligence, processes that identify potential risks prior to consummating the deal, and (ii) indemnification, contractual clauses that allow acquirers to recuperate some of their losses from key risks after consummating the deal. Using an extensive database of merger contracts, we show that mergers with higher information asymmetry between the acquirer and target are more likely to utilize indemnification. We also provide evidence consistent with a substitution effect of due diligence effort with indemnification. Specifically, on average, acquirers have shorter post-contract periods when they obtain indemnification. Moreover, we find segments absorbing indemnified targets are significantly more likely to experience future goodwill impairments, consistent with a substitution effect and the notion that lower due diligence is detrimental to appropriately valuing targets. As such, our findings provide new evidence of how this understudied contracting feature plays a role in deal valuation and wealth gains.

Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Indemnification, Due Diligence, Representations and Warranties

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick and Boone, Audra and Huang, Disen, Mitigating Acquisition Risk: The Critical Role of Indemnification during Merger Contracting (February 04, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1059/2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5124498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5124498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
P Adelson , M Jennejohn , J Nyarko , E L Talley
Introducing a New Corpus of Definitive M&A Agreements
Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper Posted: 2000
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The Economic Consequences of Financial Restatements: Evidence from the Market for Corporate Control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
L Barbopoulos , S Sudarsanam
Determinants of earnout as acquisition payment currency and bidder's value gains
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 678 - 694 Posted: 2012
T W Bates , M L Lemmon
Breaking up is hard to do? An analysis of termination fee provisions and merger outcomes
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 469 - 504 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
845
RANK
292,443
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies