Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rule 78 and Effective Interest Rate Method (IFRS 9): Financial Justice and Transparency in Islamic Finance

8 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2025

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

The Rule of 78, also known as the Sum-of-the-Digits Method, is a loan amortization technique that disproportionately allocates interest payments toward the early part of the loan term. Originally created to reduce credit risk by ensuring lenders receive a larger share of their interest earnings upfront, this method has faced significant criticism for its unfair treatment of borrowers, particularly in cases of early repayment. Key issues with the Rule of 78 include its front-loaded interest allocation, misalignment with contemporary interest practices, lack of clarity and transparency, and its conflict with ethical financial principles especially in Islamic finance, where justice and transparency are fundamental values. Additionally, it offers minimal rebates for early loan payoffs. In contrast, IFRS 9 recommends the Effective Interest Rate Method (EIRM). However, the mathematics behind EIRM is also frontloaded, although it may allow borrowers to lower total profit charges through early partial repayments. Comparisons among Rule 78, EIRM, and the Straight-Line Method (SLM) as outlined by AAOIFI standards suggest that while EIRM is more adaptable than Rule 78, only SLM meets the 'fairness' and 'transparency' requirements of Islamic financial transactions. International regulatory bodies have recognized the negative effects of Rule 78 and have taken measures to restrict or ban its use. Countries such as the United States, United Kingdom, European Union, Canada, Australia, and South Africa have enacted various regulations to limit or prohibit Rule 78 in consumer finance. In Malaysia, however, it is still permitted under hire purchase (and Islamic hire purchase or AITAB) and personal loans, sparking intense discussions about its alignment with Shariah principles. This study concludes that the continued use of Rule 78 in Islamic finance contradicts essential ethical principles of equity and consumer protection, advocating for Islamic financial institutions to adopt the SLM method for profit allocation.

Keywords: Rule 78, Revenue Apportionment, Effective Profit Method, IFRS 9, Islamic Finance

Suggested Citation:

Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain, Rule 78 and Effective Interest Rate Method (IFRS 9): Financial Justice and Transparency in Islamic Finance (February 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5124023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5124023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Abdul Halim , N Gazali , N Ahmad , W M A W Mamat , M
Shari'ah Perspective Ratio of Islamic Financing: Base Profit Rate vs Rule 78
International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering , volume 8 , issue 2S3 , p. 1007 - 1011 Posted: 2019
Directive 2008/48/EC on credit agreements for consumers Posted: 2008
Issues in the application of IFRS 9 to Islamic Finance Posted: 2012
Is Rule of 78 compatible with Islamic finance practices
Islamic Finance News Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
459,150
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies