Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Many Mergers? The Golden Parachute as a Driver of M&A Activity in the 21 st Century

Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 5125065

48 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2025

Jeffrey N. Gordon

Columbia University - Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper argues that the prevailing corporate governance regime in the United States has produced a level of mergers and acquisition activity that is greater than the social optimum. In the late 19 th through the 20 th century M&A activity was characterized by "waves" that reflected adaptations to changing external environment, whether the efficient production frontier, regulatory constraints, or capital market developments. Economically motivated parties saw the opportunities in changing the boundaries of the firm; successful first-movers spawned imitators, hence a wave, which eventually subsided, often alongside deteriorating capital market conditions. The 21st century is different. There is a persistently high level of M&A. Yes, there are fluctuations but not "waves." This pattern can be explained at least in part by the introduction of an internal driver of M&A activity, the "golden parachute," a super-bonus payoff to a target CEO. Golden parachutes were introduced as a corporate governance innovation in the 1980s to overcome managerial hostility to an unsolicited premium bid. Over time, especially as executive compensation radically shifted toward stock-based pay, golden parachutes have become increasingly lucrative. They now provide a CEO with a high-powered incentive to become a target CEO, compensating the CEO like a deal-hunting investment banker, and thus have changed the pattern of M&A activity. This results in efficiency losses at the firm level, produces social losses because of excessive layoffs, and because of the resultant "inequality with privity," will exacerbate social resentments that may have political consequences.

Keywords: Mergers & Acquisitions, Golden Parachute, Executive Compensation, Layoffs, JEL: G34, J33, J63, K22, L21, Layoffs, Resentment

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Funder Statement

Ordinary Columbia Law School Research Assistant and Research Materials Funding

JEL Classification: G34, J33, K22, L21

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Jeffrey N., Too Many Mergers? The Golden Parachute as a Driver of M&A Activity in the 21 st Century (February 01, 2025). Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 5125065, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5125065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5125065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
See Matias Covarrubias , German Gutierrez , Thomas Philippon
From Good to Bad Concentration? US Industries Over the Past 30 Years
NBER MACROECONOMICS ANN , volume 34 , issue 1 Posted: 2000
See John , C Coates , I V , Reinier Kraakman
The Link between Acquisitions and the Market for CEOs Posted: 2011-01
Jiwon Choi , Ilyana Kuziemko , Ebonya Washington , Gavin Wright
Local Economic and Political Effects of Trade Deals: Evidence from NAFTA, 114 AM. ECON REV , volume 1540 , p. 1559 - 1572 Posted: 2024-06
E G See , Giampaolo Bonomi
Nicola Genaille & Guido Tabellini, Identity, Beliefs, and Political Conflict, 136
Q. J. ECON Posted: 2021-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,185
RANK
214,562
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies