Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Discipline in Private Credit

40 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2025 Last revised: 20 Aug 2025

Young Soo Jang

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Ginha Kim

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: February 06, 2025

Abstract

Private credit managers have the discretion and often the incentives to overstate values of their loan portfolios. To alleviate agency concerns that arise in the inherent pricing opacity of their illiquid holdings, managers often delegate loan pricing to third-party valuation intermediaries. This paper studies how such intermediation affects valuation practices in private credit markets. We pair proprietary data with SEC filings to examine not only across managers, but also within their internal information environments and external reporting. Third party pricing appears to be a widely used and effective tool that disciplines valuation practices. Creditors of the private credit managers themselves play a crucial role in enforcing valuation intermediation as a governance mechanism. However, the quality of their intermediation depends on informational inputs. During times of uncertainty, lead lenders receive better appraisals through the incorporation of soft information from renegotiations. Overall, information asymmetry in lending relationships driven by the bespoke nature of direct lending appears to contribute to dispersion in reported marks, beyond often cited agency reasons.

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G23, G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Jang, Young Soo and Kim, Ginha, Valuation Discipline in Private Credit (February 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A C C Acc
Financing the economy Posted: 2022
V Agarwal , B Barber , S Cheng , A Hameed , A Yasuda
Private company valuations by mutual funds
Review of Finance , p. 693 - 738 Posted: 2023
Valuation of Portfolio Company Investments of Venture Capital and Private Equity Funds and Other Investment Companies Posted: 2019
Ares
The rise of private markets: Secular trends in non-bank lending and their economic implications Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,216
RANK
116,432
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies