Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strengthening the African Financial Architecture: Why African Multilateral Financial Institutions Should have the same Preferred Creditor Status as MDBs

AfronomicsLaw Blog, February 5, 2025, Pp. 1-12. 

12 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2025 Last revised: 6 Feb 2025

Olabisi D. Akinkugbe

Dalhousie University - Schulich School of Law

Date Written: February 02, 2025

Abstract

More recently, the preferred creditor status (PCS) of African Multilateral Financial Institutions (AMFIs) has been questioned by Bretton Woods institutions. This query arose during restructuring process of some African states' loans. As a result of this query, AMFIs loans were described as private lenders. This has dire ramifications for AMFIs, African states relations with these institutions, and the objective of achieving a sustainable, effective, and efficient African Financial Architecture. In this essay, I make four core arguments on why AMFIs  are multilateral development banks that must be treated as such on their own terms and with benefits – including PCS that allows the AMFIs to function optimally. Accordingly: i) African Multilateral Financial Institutions should be treated as MDBs with PCS because it is inherent in their lending practice. ii) African Multilateral Financial Institutions’ rates reflect the costs and risks associated with their role in areas with critical financial gaps. iii) The PCS of AMFIs is not up for determination merely by the “recognition by other creditors”. iv) The Reform of the Global Financial Architecture is incomplete without strong regional development banks such as the AMFIs that strengthen the African Financial Architecture.

Keywords: African Multilateral Financial Institutions, Preferred Creditor Status, Multilateral Development Banks, Global South Development Banks, Reform, International Financial Architecture, African Financial Architecture

Suggested Citation:

Akinkugbe, Olabisi D., Strengthening the African Financial Architecture: Why African Multilateral Financial Institutions Should have the same Preferred Creditor Status as MDBs (February 02, 2025). AfronomicsLaw Blog, February 5, 2025, Pp. 1-12. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5127257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5127257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Marc Jones
The Alliance of African Multilateral Financial Institutions welcomes African Union (AU) ministers' decisions on African Multilateral Financial Institutions' preferred creditor status
Smaller African Development Banks Preferred Credit Status under threat, JPMorgan warns , volume 132 Posted: 2021
Olabisi D Akinkugbe
African Financial Architecture: Voice, Representation, Preferred Creditor Status, and the Alliance of African Multilateral Financial Institutions Posted: 2024-12-02
Being the lead essay on the Symposium on African Multilateral Financial Institutions
See Generally , Susan Schadler
The IMF's Preferred Creditor Status: Does It Still Make Sense after the Euro Crisis? Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies