Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5127559

28 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025 Last revised: 8 Apr 2025

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Date Written: January 30, 2025

Abstract

Information about a company’s performance is a critical input to the efficient allocation of resources. Accounting, “the language of business,” lies at the heart of this process by synthesizing and structuring information in a practical way, thereby enabling users to make informed decisions. This research handbook offers a framework for understanding today's financial reporting landscape, focusing on how information is generated, validated, and used. Within this framework, the handbook walks the reader through core aspects of the financial reporting process while highlighting the interconnectedness of distinct aspects of the financial reporting environment. Key insights from relevant academic research are discussed in an intuitive manner. Readers will gain an appreciation for financial reporting, which is not only intriguing but also critically important to society at large, extending beyond accountants and financial professionals.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Environment, Financial Accounting, Accounting Information, Managerial Discretion, Decision-Making

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Weili and Koester, Allison and McVay, Sarah E., Research Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (January 30, 2025). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5127559, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5127559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5127559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,585
RANK
107,499
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies