Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lexical similarity in corporate announcements and its valuation impact: Evidence from profit warnings in Hong Kong

Posted: 10 Feb 2025 Last revised: 7 Feb 2025

Hung Wan Kot

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Lewis Tam

Faculty of Business Administration, University of Macau

Xin Xu

University of Macau

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This study explores lexical similarity in bilingual financial disclosures and its valuation impact in the context of profit warnings issued by Hong Kong-listed companies. We find that the degree of lexical similarity between the Chinese and English versions of profit warnings is negatively associated with corporate governance and financial health. Additionally, lexical similarity is related to the warnings' tone, the use of boilerplate sentences, and the direction of translation between languages. The stock price reacts relatively positively to warnings that exhibit lower lexical similarity, and this positive reaction is not reversed later. Further tests suggest that firms with predominantly Mainland Chinese ownership cater their investors' information needs by selecting Chinese as the original language for disclosures. Moreover, those firms tend to translate the original Chinese versions into English by machine. 

Keywords: Lexical similarity, profit warning, dual languages, Hong Kong market JEL codes: G14

Suggested Citation:

Kot, Hung Wan and Tam, Lewis and Xu, Xin, Lexical similarity in corporate announcements and its valuation impact: Evidence from profit warnings in Hong Kong (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5128129
 Not Available for Download
83 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
J Ammer , S Holland , D Smith , F Warnock
US international equity investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2012
M Baker , R Greenwood , J Wurgler
Catering through nominal share prices
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 2559 - 2590 Posted: 2009
M Baker , J Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies