Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of the Environment's Tax Morale on Corporate Tax Avoidance

51 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2025

Manuel Cano-Rodríguez

Universidad de Jaén

María de la Paz Horno-bueno

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We explore the impact of a country’s tax morale —defined as the intrinsic motivation and social norms that promote tax compliance— on corporate tax avoidance for both domestic firms and multinational corporations (MNCs). Our findings reveal that a strong tax morale environment deters tax avoidance for domestic companies. Moreover, our results indicate that the negative relationship between tax morale and tax avoidance is more likely attributed to managers’ personal tax morale rather than concerns about the potential reputation costs. For MNCs, our results reveal a more complex relationship between tax morale and income-shifting practices: While strong tax morale in the subsidiaries’ countries is associated with less income-shifting practices, parent companies headquartered in high-tax-morale countries engage more in these practices, possibly to bypass stricter norms at home. This study contributes to the literature by showing that tax morale plays a critical role in shaping corporate tax behavior, offering insights for policymakers on the importance of cultural and social contexts in reducing tax avoidance.

Keywords: Tax morale, corporate tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness, income shifting, multinational tax planning, reputational costs

Suggested Citation:

Cano-Rodríguez, Manuel and Horno-bueno, María de la Paz, The Influence of the Environment's Tax Morale on Corporate Tax Avoidance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5129397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5129397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 1992
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers , W Thank , T Bauer , J Hoopes , G Meek , T Omer , T Shevlin , W Thomas , J Thornock
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
RANK
914,805
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies