Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Processing Costs and Retail Deposit Flows: Evidence from the Release of Integrated Bank Social Performance Data

SGFIN Paper Series Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025 Last revised: 19 Feb 2025

Chunbing Cai

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Yibin Liu

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: February 08, 2025

Abstract

To facilitate stakeholder monitoring, the Federal Reserve Board releases multiple rounds of integrated data tables of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) performance evaluations and lending activities for randomly selected banks starting in 2020. We find that banks with poor historical CRA ratings show lower growth in retail deposits, but not wholesale deposits, compared with unaffected banks after the data release. Consistent with the view that the release reduces retail depositors’ information processing costs, the decline in retail deposit growth is more pronounced for banks with higher negative information intensity and a greater proportion of deposits from counties with high educational attainment and community involvement. Additionally, affected banks with poor ratings are more likely to approve mortgage applications from CRA assessment areas, and their CRA ratings improve following the data release. However, this expansion in mortgage approvals comes at the cost of lower credit quality. Overall, our findings suggest the importance of considering information processing costs when formulating policies aimed at improving stakeholder involvement.

Keywords: bank social performance, retail deposit flows, information processing costs JEL codes: D80, G21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Chunbing and Hung, Mingyi and Lin, Yupeng and Liu, Yibin, Information Processing Costs and Retail Deposit Flows: Evidence from the Release of Integrated Bank Social Performance Data (February 08, 2025). SGFIN Paper Series Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5129045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5129045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
V V Acharya , N Mora
A crisis of banks as liquidity providers
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
V V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
S Agarwal , E Benmelech , N Bergman , A Seru
Did the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) lead to risky lending? Posted: 2012
S Asthana , S Balsam , S Sankaraguruswamy
Differential response of small versus large investors to 10-K filings on EDGAR , volume 79 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
808
RANK
368,155
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies