Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives the Use of Aggressive Conforming and Nonconforming Tax Avoidance Strategies? New Evidence on the Tax Strategies' Substitutive Relationship

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 175

41 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Julian Bock

Leibniz University Hannover

Benjamin Peuthert

Leibniz University Hannover

Date Written: February 10, 2025

Abstract

Using unique tax audit data of 499 German firms, we analyze whether family firms, public firms, financially constrained firms, and those firms with managers with low tax morale substitute two tax strategies, book-tax conforming and nonconforming tax avoidance strategies, and examine the effect on overall tax avoidance. The empirical results are in line with family firms and those firms with low tax morale managers substituting conforming for nonconforming tax avoidance strategies, whereas public and financially constrained firms do the opposite. Moreover, we find that family firms differ from nonfamily firms only in their strategic implementation but not in the overall amount of tax avoidance. With respect to public, financially constrained firms and those firms with low tax morale managers, we find a positive association with the total level of tax avoidance.

Keywords: conforming tax avoidance, tax planning, nontax costs, book-tax conformity

JEL Classification: H26, M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Bock, Julian and Peuthert, Benjamin, What Drives the Use of Aggressive Conforming and Nonconforming Tax Avoidance Strategies? New Evidence on the Tax Strategies' Substitutive Relationship (February 10, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 175, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5130685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5130685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax morale and tax compliance from the firm's perspective
Kyklos , volume 65 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob
Dividend taxes and income shifting
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 693 - 717 Posted: 2016
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
K Blaufus , J Hundsdoerfer , M Jacob , M Sünwoldt
Does legality matter? The case of tax avoidance and evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 127 , p. 182 - 206 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
RANK
484,103
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies