Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Hidden Cost of Climate Change: Power Outages and Financial Reporting Quality

69 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025 Last revised: 22 Sep 2025

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 09, 2025

Abstract

Prior studies have examined the determinants and consequences of companies' climate-related disclosures, as well as the risks that climate change poses to companies and capital markets. In this paper, we utilize power outages, a commonly occurring climate change-related event, to investigate whether climate change has consequences for companies’ financial reporting quality and find that there are hidden costs of climate change that have not been previously investigated. We propose and measure companies' power outage risk matrix during the preparation of pre-audit financial statements, with data from the Environment for Analysis of Geo-Located Energy. We find that firms exposed to higher power outage risk have a higher likelihood of misstatements, particularly those related to late area items in the financial reports. This association is more observable when firms’ financial statements are lengthy or are more complex. Overall, our findings make a timely contribution to the ongoing discussion about climate change and suggest the importance of exploring the hidden consequences of climate change beyond traditional considerations.

Keywords: climate-relate risk, power outage risk, financial reporting quality, late misstatements, corporate exogenous factors

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo and Omer, Thomas C.,

The Hidden Cost of Climate Change: Power Outages and Financial Reporting Quality

(February 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5130291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5130291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
Accountor
Preliminary financial statement -Top 4 benefits to your company Posted: 2020
E Barone
The U.S.'s Creaky Power Grid Is No Match For Worsening Weather Catastrophes
Time Posted: 2022
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
756
RANK
495,993
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies