Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does ownership pattern affect firm performance? Empirical evidence from an emerging market

16 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Shafiqul Alam

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Sumon Kumar Das

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Md. Jamsedul Islam

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Tourism and Hospitality Management

Fahmida Boby

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Rabeya Begum

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: October 04, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of stockholdings patterns on the corporate performance of a developing market like Bangladesh. The study investigated the top 50 listed firms on the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) as market capitalization from 2015 to 2019, and data were analyzed using multiple regression. The findings showed that director and foreign stockholdings had a considerable positive effect on firm's performance in both accounting and market measures. In contrast, institutional stockholdings exhibit a negative and insignificant association with all measures except Market to Book Value (MBR), which reflect a significant negative association. The outcomes of this study may contribute to the market regulators, government, and policymakers to emphasize the close monitoring of the compliance of existing rules by companies and focus on restructuring stockholdings patterns in formulating regulations and codes for better firm performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Dhaka stock exchange (DSE), Director stockholdings, Firm performance, Foreign stockholdings, Institutional stockholdings JEL Classification M41

Declaration of Interest

There is no confict of interest.

Funder Statement

The Funding was provided by Research Cell, Noakhali Sci&#x2;ence and Technology University, Noakhali-3814, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Shafiqul and Das, Sumon Kumar and Islam, Md. Jamsedul and Boby, Fahmida and Begum, Rabeya, Does ownership pattern affect firm performance? Empirical evidence from an emerging market (October 04, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5133863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5133863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Ahmed Sheikh , N , Z Wang , S Khan
The impact of internal attributes of corporate governance on firm performance
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 55 Posted: 2013
S Aiyer
How does DSE compare with global peers?
The Financial Express Posted: 2018
T T Alabdullah
The relationship between stockholdings structure and firm financial performance
Benchmarking: An International Journal , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 319 - 333 Posted: 2018
E M Al-Matari , Y A Al-Matari , S A Mohammed
Stockholdings structure, audit quality and firm performance moderating and direct-effect models: An empirical study
Corporate Board Role Duties and Composition , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 35 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
RANK
914,805
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies