Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis on Factors that Affect Stock Prices: A Study on Listed Cement Companies at Dhaka Stock Exchange

21 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Shafiqul Alam

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Md. Rubel Miah

Noakhali Science and Technology University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: July 01, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates on identifying the main forces that affect share prices in the capital market of Bangladesh. For this, the study considers a panel data set of 7 companies of cement industry listed in the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) for the period 2006-2015.The investigation approach is designed with Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression with fixed effects and random effects models. Six fundamental and technical issues namely Earning Per Share (EPS), Net Asset Value Per Share (NAVPS), Price Earnings (P/E), Gross Domestic Production (GDP), Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Interest Rate Spread (IRS) have been brought in light as the major determinants of prices in cement industry. The findings claim that these variables are instrumental in affecting the share prices in the Bangladesh market as far as the cement industry is concerned. Among these factors EPS, NAVPS, P/E and CPI have been found significantly instrumental for cement industry in Bangladesh contexts while other variables were not found noticeably significant. A moderate R square (0.1142-.4567) found in both the Fixed and Random models justify the considerable impact of these variables on the market price of shares. Hence, the study recommends present and potential investors to consider these factors prior to trade and inject funds on securities as the study witnessed volatility in share prices by the fluctuations of these factors.

Keywords: Capital Market, Share Price, Dhaka Stock Exchange

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interest exists

Funder Statement

No fund was received for this project.

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Shafiqul and Miah, Md. Rubel, Analysis on Factors that Affect Stock Prices: A Study on Listed Cement Companies at Dhaka Stock Exchange (July 01, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5133826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5133826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
J Y Al-Ajmi
Risk Tolerance of Individual Investors in an Emerging Market
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 17 , p. 15 - 26 Posted: 2008
S Allahawiah , S Al-Amro
Factors affecting Stock Market Prices in Amman Stock Exchange: ASurvey Study
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 8 , p. 236 - 245 Posted: 2012
D E Allen , V S
Dividend Policy and Stock Price Volatility: Australian Evidence
Journal of Applied Economics , volume 6 , p. 175 - 188 Posted: 1996
N H Al-Malkawi , N Abdullah
Finance-Growth Nexus: Evidence from a Panel of MENA Countries
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 69 , p. 129 - 139 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
382,931
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial & Investment Planning Educator eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies