Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Relative Performance Evaluation

51 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025

Mary Ellen Carter

Boston College - Department of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jen Choi

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Accounting

Karen Sedatole

Goizueta Business School

Date Written: January 01, 2025

Abstract

We document evidence of customer relative performance evaluation ("customer RPE"), distinct from and incremental to, industry peer RPE documented in prior research as a mechanism for improving risk-sharing in CEO incentive contracts. We further examine the tradeoffs firms make when considering whether to include a specific customer as an RPE peer. We show that firms are more likely to choose as an RPE peer a customer that provides greater risk-sharing benefits. Additionally, firms are also more likely to use a customer with risk-sharing benefits as an RPEpeer when the benefits of aggressive bargaining against the customer are greater and the potential costs of losing a customer are smaller. Our study is the first to provide evidence of RPE filtering out factors unique to the firm’s downstream trading relationships, broadening the understanding of RPE, and helps explain the selection of RPE peers outside a firm’s industry.

Keywords: M10, M12, M40, M41, M52 executive compensation, relative performance evaluation, RPE, peer groups

Suggested Citation:

Carter, Mary Ellen and Choi, Jae Eun and Sedatole, Karen, Customer Relative Performance Evaluation (January 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5136933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5136933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , issue 6 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
A M Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
A M Albuquerque
Do growth-option firms use less relative performance evaluation?
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 60 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
724,439
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies