Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Executive Overconfidence on Earnings Management: Better than Average Effect or Miscalibration?

39 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2025

Meihua Zhou

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Wenrou Fang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jian Cao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Overconfidence is primarily characterized by the better than average effect, miscalibration and the illusion of control features. Using a unique questionnaire data from China, this paper investigates the relationship between executive overconfidence and earnings management. We find that CEO overconfidence has no significant effect on accrual earnings management, while CFO overconfidence is significantly positively associated with absolute and upward accrual earnings management, and significantly negatively associated with downward earning management. These results suggest that the effect of CFO overconfidence on accrual earnings management is driven by the “miscalibration”, rather than the “better than average effect”. Our results still hold after a series of robustness and endogeneity tests. Cross-sectional tests reveal that the significant association between CFO overconfidence and accrual earnings management is more pronounced when CFO is younger and board size is smaller. Further analysis shows that overconfident CEO tends to engage in real earnings management; the more overconfident CEO and CFO are, the more likely they aim at loss reversal. Especially overconfident CFO relies on accrual earnings management to achieve reversing loss goal. Overall, our findings support that the psychological characteristics of executives significantly affect corporate earnings management behavior.

Keywords: Executive overconfidence, better than average effect, miscalibration, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Meihua and Fang, Wenrou and Cao, Jian, The Effect of Executive Overconfidence on Earnings Management: Better than Average Effect or Miscalibration?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5138648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5138648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
J of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Acc. Rev , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
M H Bazerman , D A Moore
Judgment in managerial decision making , volume 8 Posted: 2012
M K Bednar , J D Westphal
Surveying the corporate elite: Theoretical and practical guidance on improving response rates and response quality in top management survey questionnaires
Research Methodology in Strategy and Management , p. 37 - 55 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
556,453
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies