Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Disclosure Under Regulatory Fragmentation

67 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2025

Jonathan Kalodimos

Oregon State University - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Regulatory fragmentation occurs when multiple regulatory bodies promulgate overlapping regulations. This overlap creates inconsistencies, inefficiencies, and unclear objectives but also results in enhanced domain specific scrutiny. Empirically, I find that regulatory fragmentation is associated with greater discussion of uncertainty, litigation, and overall negativity in financial disclosures. Its marginal effect intensifies with greater exposure to regulatory agencies, particularly enforcement agencies. Consistent with uncertainty and litigation risk mitigation motives, at low levels of uncertainty and litigation risk, regulatory fragmentation is associated with increased readability in textual disclosures. However, at high levels, it is linked to greater disclosure volume, potentially at the expense of readability. Additionally, around earnings announcements, the increase in bid-ask spreads appears to be mitigated by regulatory fragmentation, suggesting a reduction in information asymmetry due to heightened scrutiny and improved interim disclosure quality. These findings indicate that while overlapping regulations introduce challenges and costs to companies, they may also benefit shareholders by enhancing regulatory oversight.

Keywords: Regulatory fragmentation, government exposure, financial disclosure readability, accounting reporting complexity

Suggested Citation:

Kalodimos, Jonathan, Financial Disclosure Under Regulatory Fragmentation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5139699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5139699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Are Words Beneficial to the Consumption of Numbers in Financial Reports Posted: 2022
Daphne M Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Jeffrey L Hoopes
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Sharad Asthana , Steven Balsam , Srinivasan Sankaraguruswamy
Differential Response of Small versus Large Investors to 10-K Filings on EDGAR
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 2004
Anne Beyer , Daniel A Cohen , Thomas Z Lys , Beverly R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
556
RANK
153,959
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies