Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Acquirers' Fairness Opinions Really Fair? Evidence from Subsequent Goodwill Impairments

57 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Masoud Azizkhani

Tasmanian Audit Office

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Date Written: February 16, 2025

Abstract

A fairness opinion is a professional evaluation by a financial advisor as to whether the financial terms of a merger or acquisition are fair to shareholders. Regulators and policy makers express concern that acquirers purchase fairness opinions to justify overpaying for a target rather than truly seeking validation that the transaction value is fair. We shed light on these concerns by examining the association between acquirers’ fairness opinions and subsequent goodwill impairments. We manually identify acquirers’ fairness opinions through acquirers’ SEC disclosures, and trace goodwill impairments to acquirers’ reporting segments. We find that when an acquirer discloses the purchase of a fairness opinion in its SEC filing, goodwill is more likely to be impaired and to be impaired with a greater amount. These results hold after (i) controlling for deal premium and acquisition announcement return, (ii) employing various model specifications, (iii) restricting the sample to acquirers that require shareholder voting, (iv) restricting the sample to the post-Rule-2290 period, and (v) using a hazard model. We also find that acquirers with fairness opinions impair goodwill more quickly than acquirers without one, indicating more timely impairments. Overall, our results suggest that when acquirers’ purchase a fairness opinion, the transaction is more likely to result in higher and more timely goodwill impairment.

Keywords: goodwill impairment, mergers and acquisitions (M&As), disclosure, fairness opinion

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Azizkhani, Masoud and Chen, Lucy Huajing and Sami, Heibatollah, Are Acquirers' Fairness Opinions Really Fair? Evidence from Subsequent Goodwill Impairments (February 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5140648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5140648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D R Ayres , J L Campbell , J A Chyz , J E Shipman
Do financial analysts compel firms to make accounting decisions? Evidence from goodwill impairments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 1214 - 1251 Posted: 2019
R Ball
Accounting informs investors and earnings management in rife: Two questionable beliefs
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
A Beatty , J Weber
Accounting discretion in fair value estimates: an examination of SFAS 142 goodwill impairments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
D Bens , W Heltzer , B Segal
The information content of goodwill impairments and SFAS 142
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 527 - 555 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
827
RANK
377,290
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies