Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the Anti-Money Laundering Landscape: The Role Companies Play in Protecting the Financial System

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 4

Posted: 19 Feb 2025 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Birgit Snijder-Kuipers

Independent

Abstract

Money laundering and the financing of terrorism are serious issues. The stability of the financial system is crucial to a stable society. In this article, the author focuses on three threats to society: corporate compliance, cash and cross-border transactions. The author provides an overview of the level of risk for the different types of politically exposed persons (PEPs). An overview of PEP functions per EU Member State is also included.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2z89rca

Keywords: anti-money laundering, cross-border transaction, rule of law, corporate governance, risk assessment, beneficial ownership

Suggested Citation:

Snijder-Kuipers, Birgit, Navigating the Anti-Money Laundering Landscape: The Role Companies Play in Protecting the Financial System. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5143057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2z89rca
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies