Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing of Payments for Sustainable Clinical Laboratory Growth

9 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025

Juan Rodrigo Roberto

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Celestine Lim

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Ma. Cristina Estioco

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Marmelo V. Abante

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Florinda Vigonte

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Date Written: February 19, 2025

Abstract

Clinical laboratories play a pivotal role in assisting doctors and other medical personnel in making essential judgments about providing high-quality patient care and clarifying their value to other healthcare facilities. Laboratory generates the data and analysis that are the basis for most medical diagnoses and treatment regimens, from clinical pathology to anatomical pathology. However, providing high-quality diagnostic services is no longer solely about being accurate in terms of science. Financial efficiency is becoming a factor constantly. The highest standards of care should undoubtedly be maintained in laboratories. Still, active cost management and cost containment also require significant attention. Clinical laboratories can efficiently earn profits through properly allocating resources and minimizing waste and expenditures. By expanding services, purchasing new analyzers, or expediting test turnaround times, these revenues can and ought to be utilized to enhance patient care.

Keywords: balance of payment, economics, healthcare, high-quality, laboratory, literature review

Declaration of Interest

The author(s) affirm that this research adheres to the highest standards of academic integrity. All data, sources, and methodologies have been accurately reported and properly cited. There has been no fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in the preparation of this work. Any conflicts of interest have been disclosed, and ethical guidelines relevant to this study, including those concerning human subjects (if applicable), have been strictly followed. The findings and conclusions presented in this paper are solely those of the author(s) and have not been influenced by external parties.

Ethics Approval

This research did not involve human participants, animals, or sensitive data requiring ethics approval.

Funder Statement

The author(s) received no financial support for the research, authorship, or publication of this paper.

Clinical Trial Registration

There are no clinical trial registration number on this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Roberto, Juan Rodrigo and Lim, Celestine and Estioco, Ma. Cristina and Abante, Marmelo V. and Vigonte, Florinda, Balancing of Payments for Sustainable Clinical Laboratory Growth (February 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5144271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5144271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Derek R Armitage
Adaptive Co-Management for Social-Ecological Complexity
Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment , volume 7 , issue 2 Posted: 2009-03
Fred Avestruz , Fred Avestruz
A Study of Philippine Hospital Management Administrative Systems Posted: 2025-02-15
Bangko Sentral Ng Pilipinas ; Banzon , Eduardo P
Analysis of the Maintenance and Depreciation Costs and Other Requirements of Selected Government Hospitals
Www.econstor.eu Posted: 2014
Robert Barro , Xavier Sala-I-Martin
Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
328
RANK
785,362
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies