Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Private Equity Investment in Accounting Firms

59 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025 Last revised: 4 Apr 2025

Tuan Doan

University of Connecticut

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Ying Zhou

University of Connecticut

Youli Zou

University of Connecticut

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

With private equity (PE) funds actively buying into accounting firms, we examine how PE investment is shaping the accounting profession. First, we outline the scope of PE investment in accounting firms. Next, we conduct firm- and office-level analyses to assess accounting firms’ operating changes around PE investment. Our preliminary evidence suggests that PE investment accelerates acquired firms’ revenue growth in non-audit services but not in audit services, facilitates geographic expansion into new markets, drives rapid growth in employees, and increases both the number and size of acquisitions. We find mixed preliminary evidence of changes in job postings, suggesting that PE-backed accounting firms may prefer to obtain talent through firm acquisitions rather than traditional hiring. Finally, we analyze audit quality at the client level around their auditors’ PE deals. We find weak but preliminary evidence of improved audit quality among clients of PE-backed auditors compared to those of non-PE-backed auditors. Overall, PE investment introduces a new set of opportunities and challenges for accounting firms and their clients. Our study provides the first in-depth analyses of this important emerging topic, which is of interest to regulators, academics, and practitioners.

* Portions of this paper constitute Proposed Analyses for a registered report 


Keywords: Private equity, auditor mergers, accounting labor market, audit quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Doan, Tuan and Utke, Steven and Zhou, Ying and Zou, Youli, The Consequences of Private Equity Investment in Accounting Firms (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5147703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A , P Tambe
Private equity and workers' career paths: The role of technological change
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 2454 - 2489 Posted: 2016
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The influence of labor market power in the audit profession
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 5 , p. 65 - 95 Posted: 2024
S Bernstein , A Sheen
The operational consequences of private equity buyouts: Evidence from the restaurant industry
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 2387 - 2418 Posted: 2016
K L Bills , Q T Swanquist , R L Whited
Growing pains: Audit quality and office growth
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 288 - 313 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
942
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,039
RANK
56,812
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies