Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Narratives about Fiscal Policy: Are Firm Decision-Makers’ Tax Preferences Driven by Redistribution or Fiscal Consolidation Motives?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 176

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 2025 - 12

63 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025

Laura Arnemann

University of Mannheim

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Fabian Eble

University of Mannheim Graduate School of Economic and Social Sciences, Students

Davud Rostam-Afschar

University of Mannheim

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Florian Buhlmann

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Christopher Karlsson

University of Mannheim

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

Motivated by the increasing frequency with which business leaders publicly express their views on policy issues and by recent findings on the role of narratives in shaping preferences and behaviors, we investigate how narratives affect the tax preferences of firm decision-makers. Specifically, using a large-scale survey experiment (N=7,848), we examine how exposure to narratives of redistribution and fiscal consolidation affects firm decision-makers’ attitudes toward taxes and fiscal stimulus. We find that framing taxes as payments of due debts increases the preference to pay taxes, whereas framing taxes as funds required to cover undue losses is largely ineffective, except for a notable tendency to favor raising the capital gains tax. We also observe a greater preference to pay taxes when decision-makers agree with the stimulus. Our findings on narratives and the channels affecting tax preferences have implications for fiscal policy communication.

Keywords: Tax Preferences, Fixcal Policy, Firm Decision-Makers, Survey Experiments

Suggested Citation:

Arnemann, Laura and Dörrenberg, Philipp and Eble, Fabian and Rostam-Afschar, Davud and Voget, Johannes and Buhlmann, Florian and Karlsson, Christopher, Narratives about Fiscal Policy: Are Firm Decision-Makers’ Tax Preferences Driven by Redistribution or Fiscal Consolidation Motives? (February 04, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 176, ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 2025 - 12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5147248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5147248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Acemoglu , A He , D Le Maire
Eclipse of Rent-Sharing: The Effects of Managers' Business Education on Wages and the Labor Share in the US and Denmark Posted: 2023
A Alesina , G.-M Angeletos
Fairness and Redistribution
American Economic Review , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 960 - 980 Posted: 2005
A Alesina , A Miano , S Stantcheva
Immigration and Redistribution
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2023
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
658,366
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies