Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contractual Control in Dual-Class Corporations

Yale Journal on Regulation, Volume 42, Pp. 332-382

BYU Law Research Paper No. 25-19

51 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2025 Last revised: 22 Feb 2025

Jarrod Shobe

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Gladriel Shobe

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Date Written: February 21, 2025

Abstract

Founders and other corporate insiders often seek to control the companies they take public. For over a century, they have used high-vote stock to obtain disproportionate control rights, which has resulted in seemingly endless debate among scholars, investors, and regulators. More recently, insider shareholders have used a different mechanism to obtain outsized corporate control rights: control by contract. In 2024, contractual control rights took center stage in the Delaware courts and legislature due to the seminal Moelis case and subsequent Delaware legislation. Despite the intense focus on both dual-class companies and contractual control rights, existing research has treated high-vote stock and contractual control rights as alternative tools for insider control.

This Article is the first to consider that insider shareholders in dual class companies often obtain significant contractual control rights in addition to high-vote stock. Based on an empirical analysis of dual-class IPOs from 2000 to 2021, this Article provides a novel dataset showing that over one-quarter of dual-class companies grant insiders significant contractual control rights in addition to high-vote stock. For example, Moelis & Company, the corporation that was the subject of the controversial Moelis case, granted its founder both high-vote stock and substantial contractual control rights. The combination of these two forms of corporate control rights substantially extends and expands insiders’ control over a wide range of corporate decisions, including decisions that are generally not subject to a shareholder vote because they are the exclusive purview of the board of directors. These findings create a more complete account of the myriad ways in which insider shareholders retain outsized corporate control, which allows courts and policymakers to consider important implications for companies that grant insiders control through high-vote stock, contractual control rights, or both.

Keywords: Dual Class, Moelis, Contractual Control, Stockholders Agreement, Shareholder Agreement

Suggested Citation:

Shobe, Jarrod and Shobe, Gladriel, Contractual Control in Dual-Class Corporations (February 21, 2025). Yale Journal on Regulation, Volume 42, Pp. 332-382, BYU Law Research Paper No. 25-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5148430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5148430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Seligman
Other exchanges used the NYSE's restriction on dual-class companies as a competitive advantage by allowing these companies to list on their exchanges. See Ashton, supra note 27, at 896 n.138 (noting that the NASDAQ and AMEX did not adhere to the one-share, one-vote rule and that because of this
699 (quoting NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LISTED COMPANY MANUAL § 3 , p. 1134 - 1141 Posted: 1983
See Jill , E Fisch , Davidoff Steven , Solomon
The modern use of dual class stock dates back to 1976. In that year, Wang Laboratories listed using dual class on the American Stock Exchange ('AMEX'). The listing was controversial, and at the time barred by the New York Stock Exchange
The Problem of Sunsets, 99 B.U. L. REV. 1057 Posted: 2019
Shobe Shobe
Beginning in the 1980s, companies, starting with General Motors, increasingly began to challenge the NYSE by issuing stock with disparate voting rights , volume 1294
See Proposed Rule Change by New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Amendments to the Exchange's Voting Rights Listing Standards for Domestic Companies
, volume 724 , issue 23 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
560
RANK
534,717
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies