Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Directors Informed? Director Differences, Information Flows and Insider Trading on the Board

42 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2025 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Sander De Groote

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Dieter Smeulders

University of Bern

Date Written: August 01, 2024

Abstract

Board diversity has emerged as one of the leading governance themes worldwide. Prior research has identified that diverse directors often have less access to firm specific information compared to their non-diverse peers. These findings, however, are based on binary indicators of diversity rather than considering diversity as a function of a multitude of related facets dependent on the context in which individuals operate. We find that the information disparity between diverse directors and their peers is better explained by our aggregate measure of the distance. Directors who are more different from their peers in the context of the board realize lower abnormal returns when purchasing shares, are less likely to trade together with their peers and are more likely to be alerted to important information through public disclosure of their peers’ transactions. Our results offer a viable pathway to integrating traditionally diverse directors in existing boards and fully realizing the benefits of diversity by carefully considering the overlap between a diverse directors’ other characteristics and those of their peers.

Keywords: Director Differences, Insider Trading, Information Access, Diversity, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: J15, J16, G14, G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

De Groote, Sander and Smeulders, Dieter, Are Directors Informed? Director Differences, Information Flows and Insider Trading on the Board (August 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5148911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5148911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern
Information networks: Evidence from illegal insider trading tips
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 125 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 47 Posted: 2017
D M Alldredge , B Blank
DO INSIDERS CLUSTER TRADES WITH COLLEAGUES? EVIDENCE FROM DAILY INSIDER TRADING
Journal of Financial Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 331 - 360 Posted: 2019
P G Badolato , D C Donelson , M Ege
Audit committee financial expertise and earnings management: The role of status
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 208 - 230 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
312
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies