Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of ERP Adoption on Corporate Managers' Information Environment: New Data and New Evidence

48 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2025

Kai Guo

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)

Yiyi He

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

bin lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Fiona Yingfei Wang

National University of Singapore

Date Written: February 23, 2025

Abstract

We reexamine the impact of ERP adoption on corporate managers' information environment. Our study offers two key advantages: (i) access to a proprietary database on both timing and specific modules of ERP adoption and (ii) precise measurement of managers' information advantage via mandatory earnings forecasts. These unique features address limitations in prior ERP studies, enabling a rigorous difference-indifferences analysis. Detailed ERP module data allows us to differentiate between Type 1 modules (tracking information flows) and Type 2 modules (tracking transaction flows). We find that ERP adoption improves managers' mandatory earnings forecast accuracy only for firms adopting Type 1 modules over the long run. No benefits are observed for Type 2 modules or short-term adoption of Type 1 modules. Results are consistent when using insider trades as an alternative proxy. We portray a more nuanced picture than the prior literature on the impact of ERP adoption.

Keywords: ERP adoption, Corporate information environment, Management earnings forecasts, Insider trading, China

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Kai and He, Yiyi and Ke, Bin and lin, bin and Wang, Yingfei, The Impact of ERP Adoption on Corporate Managers' Information Environment: New Data and New Evidence (February 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5155048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5155048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2758 - 2788 Posted: 2010
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
F Akbas , C Jiang , P D Koch
Insider Investment Horizon
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , issue 3 , p. 1579 - 1627 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
549,043
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies