Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers & Acquisitions

76 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2025

Hasan Alaali

Institute of Certified Public Accountant ( ICPAP); Association of International Accountants (AIA)

Date Written: November 26, 2018

Abstract

Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) may not only impact the value of the merging companies but can also generate either positive or negative value for the firms involved. One of the primary reasons corporations engage in takeovers is to create value for shareholders. M&A is incorporated by organizations as a strategic restructuring tool to drive shareholder value through growth, enhanced operational efficiencies, and synergy creation.

Over the last four decades, M&A activity has increased, but the rate of failure in such transactions has also risen. Research indicates that these transactions do not necessarily create value for shareholders. Several studies have explored the inefficiencies of M&A and have identified various factors, including the integration process in the post-acquisition phase, as critical determinants of success or failure.

The findings suggest that the integration process plays a significant role in the outcome of an acquisition. A strong integration strategy in the post-acquisition phase enhances the likelihood of success. This research provides a holistic view of M&A, the factors influencing such transactions, and the business valuation process. The results offer a clearer understanding of the importance of M&A and the key considerations in analyzing business valuation.

The primary purpose of this dissertation is to critically evaluate the importance of mergers and acquisitions, analyze the takeover process and underlying motives, assess the consequences, and examine how companies respond to hostile takeovers. Additionally, the dissertation discusses the business valuation approaches used to determine the value of a target company's shares

Keywords: Free Cash Flow (FCF), Financial Synergies, Corporate Finance, M& Strategies, Due Diligence, Risk Management in M&A, Market Power, Economic Efficiency, Horizontal Integration, Competitive Advantage, Vertical Integration, Conglomerate Mergers, Shareholders Wealth Maximization, Valuation Techniques, Discounted Cash Flow (DCF), Hostile vs. Friendly Takeovers, Regulatory Framework in M&A, Corporate Governance, Mergers Success Factors, Mergers & Acquisitions, Business Valuation, Shareholders Value, Synergies, Post-Acquisition Integration, Hostile Takeover, Corporate Restructuring

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no conflict of interest regarding this study.

Ethics Approval

This study did not require ethics approval.

Funder Statement

This study was conducted without external funding.

JEL Classification: G34, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Alaali, Hasan, Mergers & Acquisitions (November 26, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5157947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5157947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
168,133
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies