Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financing the Costs of Tackling Climate Change: The Financial Transaction Tax at the COP 30

44 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Miguel Correia

Catholic University of Portugal (UCP) - Católica Global School of Law

Date Written: February 27, 2025

Abstract

Adapting to climate change and mitigating its effects will require a major global financial effort. One of the financial instruments that has been discussed over the past two decades to finance this effort, without ever achieving visible success, is the Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). More recently, at the COP 28, the tax was given new impetus with the creation of the Global Solidarity Levies Task Force, led by France, Kenya and Barbados and supported by several other countries and a wide range of international organisations (including the IMF, the World Bank, the UN, the OECD and the G20), with the aim of identifying sources of financing for the global effort. The Task Force has identified the FTT as one of the levies that merits further research. It is hoped that at the forthcoming COP 30, to be held in Brazil in November 2025, the Task Force will present final technical proposals for the introduction of new levies at the global level, including an FTT. The aim of this study is to contribute to this endeavour by evaluating the FTT proposal recently released by the Task Force for public consultation and, where relevant, making policy suggestions for consideration.

Keywords: FTT, Financial Transaction Tax, Financing Climate Change, Global Solidarity Task Force, COP 30

Suggested Citation:

Correia, Miguel, Financing the Costs of Tackling Climate Change: The Financial Transaction Tax at the COP 30 (February 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5160387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5160387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
that the liquidity of taxed shares tends to decrease compared to untaxed shares Posted: 2017
Wagener Meyer , Weinhardt , Alworth Bibliography , Julian S / Arachi , Giampaolo
Taxation and the Financial Crisis Posted: 2012
Yakov / Amihud , Haim Mendelson , K Lehn , R W Kamphuis
Transaction Taxes and Stock Values
Modernising U.S. Securities Regulation: Economic and Legal Perspectives , p. 477 - 500 Posted: 1992
Banca D'italia
Bollettino Economico , issue 4 Posted: 2019-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
436
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies