Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Managers Influence the Market’s Composition of Street Earnings Absent Non-GAAP Earnings Guidance?

51 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2025 Last revised: 26 May 2025

Kalin S. Kolev

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Edgar Rodriguez-Vazquez

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Xiaoxi Wu

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 25, 2025

Abstract

Prior research posits that non-GAAP earnings guidance influences how capital markets define “street” earnings. Many managers, however, do not guide on non-GAAP earnings. We provide novel evidence on a frequent disclosure practice—guidance on special items and recurring items that are often not considered part of core earnings (SIRI). We find that the rate of SIRI guidance is 51.0 percent across S&P 1,500 firms during 2005-2021 and that SIRI guidance is prevalent when non-GAAP earnings is not guided. Our evidence suggests that SIRI guidance influences the composition of analysts’ street earnings forecasts even absent non-GAAP earnings guidance. SIRI guidance not only refines but also prompts analysts to initiate forecasted exclusions and predicts both managers’ and analysts’ subsequent non-GAAP reporting. Overall, we provide insights into an alternative guidance practice that shapes the market’s definition of core earnings, informing academics, practitioners, and regulators of the potential extent of ‘implicit’ non-GAAP earnings guidance.

Keywords: Street Earnings Exclusions, Guidance on Special Items and Recurring Items, Implicit Non-GAAP Reporting, Management Guidance

Suggested Citation:

Kolev, Kalin S. and Rodriguez-Vazquez, Edgar and Wu, Xiaoxi, Can Managers Influence the Market’s Composition of Street Earnings Absent Non-GAAP Earnings Guidance? (May 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5161465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5161465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , R Price
Delisting returns and their effect on accountingbased market anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
J W Bentley , T E Christensen , K H Gee , B C Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen , C R Larson
Assessing the relative informativeness and permanence of pro forma earnings and GAAP operating earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 285 - 319 Posted: 2003
D E Black , T E Christensen
Policy implications of research on non-GAAP reporting
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
484,103
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies