Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital market liberalization and corporate debt maturity structure: evidence from the Shanghai-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock connect

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 1, 2025

25 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Jun Huang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Haijie Mo

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Tianshu Zhang

Shanghai University of International Business and Economics

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

Purpose - This paper takes the Shanghai-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect as a quasi-natural experiment and investigates the impact of capital market liberalization on the corporate debt maturity structure. It also aims to provide some policy implications for corporate debt financing and further liberalization of the capital market in China. 

Design/methodology/approach - Employing the exogenous event of Shanghai-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect and using the data of Chinese A-share firms from 2010 to 2020, this study constructs a difference-indifferences model to examine the relationship between capital market liberalization and corporate debt maturity structure. To validate the results, this study performed several robustness tests, including the parallel test, the placebo test, the Heckman two-stage regression and the propensity score matching.

Findings - This paper finds that capital market liberalization has significantly increased the proportion of long-term debt of target firms. Further analyses suggest that the impact of capital market liberalization on the debt maturity structure is more pronounced for firms with lower management ownership and non-Big 4 audit. Channel tests show that capital market liberalization improves firms' information environment and curbs self-interested management behavior. 

Originality/value - This research provides empirical evidence for the consequences of capital market liberalization and enriches the literature on the determinants of corporate debt maturity structure. Further this study makes a reference for regulators and financial institutions to improve corporate financing through the governance role of capital market liberalization.

Keywords: Capital market liberalization, Information environment, Self-interested management behavior, Corporate debt maturity structure

JEL Classification: G32, D53

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Jun and Mo, Haijie and Zhang, Tianshu, Capital market liberalization and corporate debt maturity structure: evidence from the Shanghai-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock connect (March 01, 2025). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 1, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
M Aarstol
Inflation and debt maturity
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 153 Posted: 2000
M Ahmadi , M Gerayli
Hiring a high-quality auditor and debt maturity structure: Evidence from Iranian firms
Journal of Economic and Social Studies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 15 Posted: 2018
M Allaya , I Derouiche , A Muessig
Voluntary disclosure, ownership structure, and corporate debt maturity: A study of French listed firms
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 81 Posted: 2022
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
791,953
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies