Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stakeholder Orientation in CSR Reporting of Non-Listed Banks

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 179

49 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025 Last revised: 3 Mar 2025

Maryna Gulenko

University of Paderborn

Saskia Kohlhase

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Urska Kosi

Paderborn University; University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: March 03, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the role of stakeholders in mandatory CSR reporting of non-publicly listed savings banks in Germany. They are established by municipal trustees and serve clients in their distinct operating area. Reporting discretion under the Non-Financial Reporting Directive leads us to expect variation in mandatory CSR reporting arising from materiality assessment differences due to divergent interests of banks’ stakeholders and impact of banks’ activities on the stakeholders. We document that the CSR reports and specific CSR dimensions are associated with the interests of municipal trustees and to a lesser extent with the interests of clients. The associations with less salient stakeholders, such as private clients, are more pronounced in banks with a holistic accountability approach. This indicates that savings banks consider interests of relevant stakeholders in the CSR reports but differentiate between salient and less salient stakeholder groups. Our findings for medium-sized banks inform policy discussions about detailed CSR disclosure requirements (e.g., the European Sustainability Reporting Standards) and extension of reporting scope to small and medium-sized firms with regional orientation and absence of typical shareholders.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility reporting, non-publicly listed banks, stakeholder groups

JEL Classification: G20, G30, K20, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gulenko, Maryna and Kohlhase, Saskia and Kosi, Urska, Stakeholder Orientation in CSR Reporting of Non-Listed Banks (March 03, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 179, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
S Ayuso , M A Rodríguez , R García-Castro , M A Ariño
Maximizing stakeholders' interests: An empirical analysis of the stakeholder approach to corporate governance
Business & Society , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 414 - 439 Posted: 2014
E Beccalli
Does IT investment improve bank performance? Evidence from Europe
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 2205 - 2230 Posted: 2007
K Bouslah , A Hmaittane , L Kryzanowski , B & M'zali
CSR Structures: Evidence, Drivers, and Firm Value Implications
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 185 , p. 115 - 145 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
RANK
735,901
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies