Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Usage and Trading by Retail Investors: Evidence from Integrated Trading Platform

94 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Jacky Chau

Shenzhen Technology University

Date Written: August 01, 2021

Abstract

This registered report investigates self-directed retail investors' information choices and trading decisions on an integrated trading platform that provides timely and convenient access to accounting information. The analyses reveal that these investors access a mosaic of information, with a high proportion not firm-specific. In accessing accounting disclosures, retail investors are more interested in media articles providing summaries or expert analyses than original filings. Retail trades on this integrated trading platform are more informed than another retail trading platform providing little information services while exhibiting no significant differences in informativeness compared with institutional trades using Bulge Bracket platforms. In particular, trade informativeness is more pronounced when there are accounting disclosures. The evidence suggests that self-directed retail investors can benefit from a trading environment that provides rich and convenient access to a mosaic of information, particularly timely accounting disclosures.

Keywords: retail investor, online brokerage, information usage, accounting information, trading platform, earnings announcements

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

The author gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Shenzhen Technology University as well as grant funding support from Hong Kong Research Grants Council (#14505021) and SZTU Research Startup Grant (GDRC202428).

JEL Classification: G11, G12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chau, Yuen-Kit, Accounting Information Usage and Trading by Retail Investors: Evidence from Integrated Trading Platform (August 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Brad M Barber , Terrance Odean
All that glitters: The effect of attention and news on the buying behavior of individual and institutional investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2007
Brad M Barber , Terrance Odean
Trading is hazardous to your wealth: The common stock investment performance of individual investors
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2000
Brad M Barber , Terrance Odean , Ning Zhu
Do retail trades move markets?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 186 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
322,813
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies