Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turning on A Virtuous Cycle across Corporations: The Diversity Spillover Effect through Female Leadership Exposure

The Wharton School Research Paper

Posted: 3 Mar 2025 Last revised: 15 May 2025

Lili Dai

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Rui Dai

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS); The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen (CUHK-Shenzhen)

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Zihang Peng

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

This study provides evidence that CEOs’ exposure to female leadership with previous employers is positively associated with the extent of workforce gender diversity in their current firms. The results are robust in analyses using the instrumental variable approach and based on quasi-exogenous CEO turnovers, mitigating potential selection concerns. This gender diversity spillover effect is more pronounced when CEOs are exposed to female leaders for a longer time and when these female leaders perform better. Further analyses suggest that firms led by exposed CEOs tend to introduce diversity-related incentives to executive teams, close gender gaps in pay and promotion, and engage less in diversity-washing activities. Finally, we find that the workforce diversity induced by female leadership exposure adds economic value to corporations. Taken together, these findings suggest positive externalities of female business leaders, turning the labor market vicious cycle into a virtuous cycle through their leadership impacts in the workplace.

Keywords: Diversity, Spillover, Female leadership

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Lili and Dai, Rui and Lisic, Ling Lei and Peng, Zihang, Turning on A Virtuous Cycle across Corporations: The Diversity Spillover Effect through Female Leadership Exposure (May 15, 2025). The Wharton School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162069
 Not Available for Download
63 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
K R Ahern , A Dittmar
The changing of the boards: The impact on firm valuation of mandated female board representation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 197 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies