Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind Closed Doors: Unveiling Earnings Management in Private Subsidiaries of Public Firms

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 1, 2025

21 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Priyesh P.

IIM Kozhikode

Jijo Lukose

Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

Purpose - This study examines the earnings quality of private-subsidiary firms using a large sample data from India.



Design/methodology/approach - The impact of parent-subsidiary relationship on earnings quality is examined using two common proxies. Findings are robust to alternative research designs, including different earnings quality proxies, endogeneity and matching techniques. 


Findings - The study finds that private firms that are subsidiaries of listed firms tend to have lesser (greater) earnings quality (manipulation). Further, the study reports that this relationship is more pronounced when the parent firm is relatively larger than the subsidiaries. The study finds no evidence that Big 4 affiliation of the parent company improves earnings quality among private subsidiaries; instead, it exacerbates earnings manipulation in some cases. Finally, the authors document that subsidiary firms use tax management, as proxied by book tax differences, to engage in income-increasing earnings manipulation. 


Research limitations/implications - This study examines how affiliation with a listed entity as a subsidiary impacts the earnings quality of private companies. Future research could investigate the financial reporting practices of both private subsidiary firms and standalone private firms, comparing them in similar or differing regulatory environments across various countries.


Practical implications - The findings of this study will help investors, bankers, creditors and regulators to understand the financial reporting of private firms. The study calls for enhanced audit quality at the subsidiary level by making the auditor of the parent firm responsible for auditing a subsidiary, a practice that is currently absent in India. 


Originality/value - The results contribute to the existing debate on how firms manage earnings using data of private firms in a large emerging market setting. Previous research has not paid enough attention to the earnings quality of private subsidiaries. The study also emphasizes the necessity for a more robust system of governance and supervision for private firms, particularly in India and generally in other countries.

Keywords: Audit quality, Earnings quality, Earnings management, Private-subsidiary firms

Suggested Citation:

P., Priyesh and Lukose P. J., Jijo, Behind Closed Doors: Unveiling Earnings Management in Private Subsidiaries of Public Firms (March 01, 2025). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 1, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Walwhan Solar , K A Ltd , Walwhan Solar , M H Ltd , Walwhan Solar , M P Ltd , Walwhan Solar , P B Ltd , Walwhan Solar , R J Ltd , Walwhan Solar , T N Ltd
Walwhan Urja Anjar Ltd, Walwhan Urja India Ltd, Walwhan Wind R J Ltd where the last word before "Ltd" denotes the states in which the subsidiaries are incorporated
Authors' calculation based on CMIE data
Sec 2 (46) of the Companies Act Posted: 2013
the government of India intervened and constituted a new board for IL&FS as the old one was failed to discharge its duties Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies