Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cutting Corners: Does Pay Transparency Impair Workplace Safety? 

55 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Nathaniel Kwapong Obuobi

City University of Hong Kong

Emmanuel Ofosu

Lingnan University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: March 04, 2025

Abstract

Leveraging the state-level staggered adoption of pay transparency laws as a quasi-natural experiment, we document that workplace safety violations become more frequent and severe afterward, implying that pay transparency undermines workplace safety. In exploring underlying channels, we find that the rise in safety violations stems from lower investments in employee safety, consistent with firms responding to the additional financial and administrative burden imposed by pay transparency laws by cutting corners to protect their profitability. We also provide evidence that the role that pay transparency plays in workplace safety is magnified in financially constrained firms and in firms under more earnings pressure. Additionally, we find that pay transparency laws are irrelevant to non-labor-related violations, suggesting that firms may selectively alter their policies and practices pertaining to employee treatment after such legislation is enacted. Finally, we report that firms' future stock performance suffers when workplace safety failures surface, reflecting another negative economic implication of pay transparency laws.

Keywords: Pay transparency, Workplace safety, Real activities manipulation

JEL Classification: J28, J31, K31, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Obuobi, Nathaniel Kwapong and Ofosu, Emmanuel and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Cutting Corners: Does Pay Transparency Impair Workplace Safety?  (March 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5163968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5163968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A K Agrawal , D A Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
M R Amin , I Kim , S Lee
Local religiosity, workplace safety, and firm value
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 70 Posted: 2021
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasiexperiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
247,189
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies