Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Data Assets

59 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2025 Last revised: 27 Jun 2025

Xingchao Gao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Junhao Liu

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Hai Lu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: March 03, 2025

Abstract

We provide initial survey and empirical evidence on a new accounting rule in China that allows data to be recognized as assets in financial statements. Our survey of 511 Chinese public firms yields two major findings. First, firms show strong agreement with the importance of data in their operations and value creation. Second, while firms widely acknowledge the benefits of recognizing and disclosing data resources, such as improved relevance of accounting information and real effects on digitalization, substantial concerns arise from the direct and indirect costs of compliance. Using data on actual data asset reporting practices throughout 2024, we find that only 2% of public firms have reported data assets, but their impact on accounting earnings appears non-trivial. Follow-up interviews provide insights into why most firms have not recognized data assets despite the economic significance and potential benefits. Overall, our study offers novel insights into the first accounting rule worldwide for corporate data resources and provides policy implications for standard setters and practitioners regarding the accounting for and disclosure of intangibles.

Keywords: Data Assets, Intangibles, Accounting Standard, Digital Economy, Survey

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Xingchao and Liu, Junhao and Lu, Hai, Accounting for Data Assets (March 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5164215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Abis , L Veldkamp
The changing economics of knowledge production
Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2024
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan , S Zhao
Market valuation of intangible asset: Evidence on SG&A expenditure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 61 - 90 Posted: 2019
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,628
RANK
106,324
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies