Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Financing in the Netherlands: Key Considerations in a Growing Market

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 2

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Joost T. Kool

Independent

Abstract

The financial sector plays a key role in ensuring that funds are reoriented towards sustainable investments. Various instruments can be used, including use-of-proceeds and sustainability-linked instruments. Use-of-proceeds instruments are suitable if funds are required for a specific green and/or social project. Funds made available under sustainability-linked instruments can be used for general purposes and are suitable to improve the sustainability profile of the lender. Both lenders and borrowers should consider which and in what way these instruments are used and documented. Transparency and verification of data and standards are key topics and should safeguard the integrity of the ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) financing sector and to prevent greenwashing, considering the capacity of the borrower and the costs involved. Further standardization of documentation, benchmarks and taxonomy will help achieving these objectives.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/20nd79g

Keywords: ESG, financing, investment

Suggested Citation:

Kool, Joost T., ESG Financing in the Netherlands: Key Considerations in a Growing Market. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/20nd79g
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies