Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing in Crypto-Assets: Council Adoption of DAC8

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Toine M. L. Gorissen

Independent

Yasin Uslu

Independent

Abstract

This article provides an update on the adoption of an amendment to the Directive on Administrative Cooperation (2011/16) (DAC) on 17 October 2023, thereby bringing crypto-assets in scope of automatic exchange of information for tax purposes (DAC8). There is a high degree of interdependency between DAC8, the Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA) and OECD Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework (CARF). The authors provide an overview of DAC8 and highlight certain scoping observations based on the cross-referencing between DAC8, MiCA and CARF as well as on the proposed amendments from the European Parliament’s resolution dated 13 September 2023.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1xj7qr4

Keywords: crypto-assets, DAC8, automatic exchange of information, reporting requirements, due diligence, MiCA, CARF, extraterritoriality, penalties

Suggested Citation:

Gorissen, Toine M. L. and Uslu, Yasin, Investing in Crypto-Assets: Council Adoption of DAC8. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1xj7qr4
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies