Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Role of Venture Capital Certification in M&As Exits

43 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2025 Last revised: 29 Jul 2025

Anup Basnet

Western University

Magnus Blomkvist

EDHEC Business School

Thomas John Walker

Concordia University, Quebec - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

We theorize and show that venture capital reputation has heterogeneous impacts on M&A transaction prices pre- and post-IPO. The large information asymmetries between sellers and prospective buyers in private M&A transactions lead to that prospective buyers discount private targets. Venture capital reputation can serve as a credible signalling mechanism by certifying the quality of the portfolio company, thereby enhancing the price obtained in pre-IPO M&A exits. For firms taken public, the information production in the IPO process makes the value of reputation negligible, even if the VC is still invested at the time of the sale. We attribute our findings to the certification reputable venture capitalists provide for opaque pre-IPO firms. 

Keywords: Venture Capital, Reputation, IPOs, M&As, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Basnet, Anup and Blomkvist, Magnus and Walker, Thomas John,

The Role of Venture Capital Certification in M&As Exits

(March 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5166634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5166634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
References Agarwal , R Ganco , M Ziedonis , R H
Reputations for toughness in patent enforcement: Implications for knowledge spillovers via inventor mobility
Strategic Management Journal , volume 30 , issue 13 , p. 1349 - 1374 Posted: 2009
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
G A Akerlof
The market for lemons: Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
N Aktas , E De Bodt , J G Cousin
Product market competition, stock price informativeness, and managerial learning
Social Science Research Network , issue 5103823 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
RANK
833,930
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies