Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cultivating Auditors Who Are More Committed to and Better at Ensuring Audit Quality

50 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2025

Jasmijn C. Bol

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Isabella Grabner

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Markets and Strategy

Katlijn Haesebrouck

Maastricht University - Department of Accounting and Information Management

Mark E. Peecher

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Gies College of Business; University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: February 14, 2025

Abstract

Using a mixed-method approach-combining interviews (n=34) with an experiment and accompanying survey (n=399)-we find that some auditors exhibit stronger action-oriented skepticism, i.e., stronger commitment to taking steps, as needed, to ensure audit quality. We also find that such auditors better calibrate their professional judgments about material misstatement risk to whether available evidence indicates that management is using aggressive accounting. To identify socialization and selection factors that cultivate such auditors, we use organizational theory to interpret the interview data. We then craft a survey to test these factors. As predicted, two socialization factors, audit voice culture and resource facilitation, are positive predictors of action-oriented skepticism, as are two selection factors, societal importance and truth-seeking. By contrast, value communications about audit quality undermine action-oriented skepticism. These findings advance the literature on audit culture and skepticism and inform audit firms' response to regulators' calls to build cultures that promote audit quality.

Keywords: JEL Classifications: L2, M4 action-oriented skepticism, audit quality, audit voice culture, professional judgment, professional skepticism, resource facilitation, selection, socialization, supportive leadership action-oriented skepticism

JEL Classification: L2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bol, Jasmijn C. and Grabner, Isabella and Haesebrouck, Katlijn and Peecher, Mark E., Cultivating Auditors Who Are More Committed to and Better at Ensuring Audit Quality (February 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: The role of accounting, behavior, and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue 3-4 , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
M A Abernethy , H C Dekker , A , K-D Schulz
Are employee selection and incentive contracts complements or substitutes
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 668 Posted: 2015
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit firm culture: Recent developments and trends in the literature
European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
B A Allan , C Bratz-Barbarich , H M Sterling , L Tay
Outcomes of meaningful work: A metaanalysis
Journal of Management Studies , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 500 - 528 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
517,938
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies