Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Resource Practices In Textile Sector; A Case Study Of Bengaluru City

7 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Nagesh B

Presidency University

Date Written: January 05, 2024

Abstract

In the context of the Indian textile sector, HR practices remain a fresh, flexible, and ambiguous term. The success of textile businesses depends heavily on human resources planning, both for short-and long-term goals. Welfare aids in increasing employee retention and sustaining a great reputation. The outcome of this research will definitely help the textile garment employees and employers to improve the efficiency of the organization and to sustain in the long run. Furthermore, this study will make it possible for employees to contribute and work towards improving the organization. The study is based on 125 convenient respondents who are working as labor or employees in different garments industries at Bangalore city of Karnataka, primary data were collected through questionnaires and personal discussions with the respondents. univariate, bivariate and multivariate analysis used to analyze the primary data.

Keywords: Textile industry, HR Practices in textile industry, Labor turnover in textile industry

Suggested Citation:

B, Nagesh, Human Resource Practices In Textile Sector; A Case Study Of Bengaluru City (January 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5167568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5167568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
G Anil , G K Lohar
An Overview of HR Challenges and Opportunities in Textile Industry: Current Scenario
International Journal of Human Resource Management and Research (IJHRMR) , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 136 Posted: 2013
C Loganathan , A V
A study on effectiveness of HR practices and policies on job satisfaction with reference textile industries in Tamil Nadu
India. International Journal in Management and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 11 , p. 168 - 180 Posted: 2015
C Y Krishna , S V
Assessment of Support and Benefits of HRIS in medium-scale textile Industries
IJRESS , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 57 Posted: 2011
A D Chenniappan Loganathan
A Study on Impact of HRM Practices and Policies on Employee's Organisational Commitment in Textile Spinning Mills in Tamil Nadu
India. Indian Journal of Science and Technology , volume 10 , issue 15 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
505,214
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Theory - Analytical Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies