Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Certifications and Global Paos on the Accounting Discipline: Empirical Evaluation in Saudi Arabia

23 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2025

Francisco Bastida

Prince Sultan University

Professor Mohammad Nurunnabi

Prince Sultan University

Zahirul Hoque

Prince Sultan University

Owolabi Bakre

Prince Sultan University

Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab

Beni Suef University; Prince Sultan University

Basiem AlShattarat

Prince Sultan University

Abstract

Through a holistic research approach (theoretical framework, survey and focus groups interviews), this article, for the first time, seeks to disentangle the relationships between accounting graduates curricula, global PAOs and accounting certifications. The field study was carried out in Saudi Arabia. Surveyed employers listed many points that should be considered by universities and policy makers to increase the employability of accounting graduates: professional certifications, especially SOCPA certification (the official Saudi professional accounting certification), and lifelong learning in enhancing accounting graduates’ professional skills. The two skills that respondents mostly consider missing in the accounting curriculum are financial statement analysis and big data/AI. Therefore, certification could be a way to bridge these two gaps in the accounting curricula. All employers operating in the accounting sector recommend some accounting certificate. Certification and long-life learning through enrolment in PAOs definitely shape the future of accountants. Finally, our empirical findings confirm both the Human Capital theory and the Occupational Regulation theory.

Keywords: Professional certifications, Professional Accountancy Organization, empirical evaluation, Saudi Arabia

Suggested Citation:

Bastida, Francisco and Nurunnabi, Professor Mohammad and Hoque, Zahirul and Bakre, Owolabi and Diab, Ahmed Abdelnaby and AlShattarat, Basiem, Professional Certifications and Global Paos on the Accounting Discipline: Empirical Evaluation in Saudi Arabia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5168458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5168458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
References
I Ajzen
Human Capital: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis with Special Reference to Education , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1964
A Borgonovo , B Friedrich , M Wells
Competency-based accounting education, training, and certification. Implementation guide Posted: 2018
M Coe
Factors that influence a student's intention to sit for the CPA exam
CPA Journal , volume 86 , issue 8 , p. 18 - 20 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
730,194
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies