Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Former CEO Directors and Management Forecast Accuracy

44 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2025

Souhei Ishida

Hitotsubashi University

Takuma Kochiyama

Waseda University - School of Commerce; Graduate School of Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University

Date Written: March 07, 2025

Abstract

While firms often appoint former CEOs to the board after succession, the benefits and costs of such appointments have been controversial, with mixed conclusions. This study examines whether and how former CEO directors affect corporate disclosure quality. We focus on management earnings forecasts in Japanese firms and analyze forecast accuracy as disclosure quality. We find that the presence of former CEO directors is negatively associated with management forecast errors, and this negative relationship is observed only for firms retaining former CEOs with high forecasting ability. Moreover, our additional analyses show that this negative linkage between former CEO directors and forecast errors is pronounced for firms with high business uncertainty and weak corporate governance. From a market reaction analysis, we further find that investors value the presence of former CEO directors with high forecasting ability when assessing the implication of management forecasts. Overall, the findings suggest that former CEO directors have a favorable influence on corporate disclosure but that this impact depends on their ability.

Keywords: Former CEO director, CEO turnover, Management earnings forecast, Forecasting ability, Japan

JEL Classification: M41, M12, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ishida, Souhei and Kochiyama, Takuma, Former CEO Directors and Management Forecast Accuracy (March 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5169043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5169043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Andre C , E Fernau , E Theissen
Should I stay or should I go? Former CEOs as monitors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 28 , p. 26 - 47 Posted: 2014
B Baik , D B Farber , S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
L Bamber , Y Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
708,207
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies