Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Questioning the Possibilities for Dialogic Accounting Online: The Case of the Heetch Trial

40 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2025

Penelope Van Den Bussche

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jeremy Morales

University of Bristol

Abstract

The digital sphere offers new possibilities for dialogical accounting, creating spaces for new relations of accountability between corporations and civil society. However, such promises are limited by the control that online platforms exert over those spaces. We study the case of a transportation platform in France facing legal trouble and organizing an online mobilization for its support. We build on Dean’s (2013) notion of a privatized public to explore how the platform uses accounting to build its online support while remaining in control of the narrative. We thus show how technological devices can channel resistance into a controlled space, producing commodified, corporate accounts and question the possibilities of civic engagement online.

Keywords: online accounting, dialogical accounting, resistance

Suggested Citation:

Van Den Bussche, Penelope and Morales, Jeremy, Questioning the Possibilities for Dialogic Accounting Online: The Case of the Heetch Trial. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5169154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5169154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Bibliography
G Agamben
Qu'est-ce que le commandement ?
J. Gayraud, Trad.). Éd. Payot & Rivages Posted: 2013
J Bebbington , J Brown , B Frame
Accounting technologies and sustainability assessment models
Ecological Economics , volume 61 , issue 2-3 , p. 224 - 236 Posted: 2007
D Beer
Power through the algorithm? Participatory web cultures and the technological unconscious , volume 11 , p. 985 - 1002 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
191
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Information Systems: Behavioral & Social Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies