Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Regulatory Disclosures Matter in Times of Uncertainty? Evidence from U.S. Gubernatorial Elections

57 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025 Last revised: 11 Mar 2025

Xi Wu

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Bohyun Yang

University of Oregon - Charles H. Lundquist School of Business

Date Written: October 07, 2024

Abstract

Using U.S. gubernatorial election induced policy and regulatory uncertainty, we examine whether and how historical firm regulatory disclosures assist investors in coping with heightened uncertainty prior to the elections. We construct two distinct text-based measures to capture the quantitative and qualitative aspects of historical regulatory disclosures: a discussion frequency index derived from the bag-of-words approach, and a concreteness index using the recently developed GenAI method. We show that these two measures capture largely orthogonal aspects of regulatory disclosures, and both measures significantly mitigate the intensified firm volatility and information asymmetry leading up to elections. The mitigating effects of regulatory disclosures are more pronounced when the discussion is state-related and when fewer alternative information sources are available. Overall, our findings highlight the usefulness of both quantitative and qualitative historical disclosures in helping investors navigate periods of increased uncertainty.

Keywords: Uncertainty, Information asymmetry, GenAI, Large language models, Gubernatorial election

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, G30

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Xi and Yang, Bohyun, Do Regulatory Disclosures Matter in Times of Uncertainty? Evidence from U.S. Gubernatorial Elections (October 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5170487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5170487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
R K Atiase , L S Bamber , S Tse
Timeliness of financial reporting, the firm size effect, and stock price reactions to annual earnings announcements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 526 - 552 Posted: 1989
D Bernard , E Blankespoor , T De Kok , S Toynbee
A modular measure of business complexity Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
609,870
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies