Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Leave or to Stay During a Crisis: Auditors’ Career Choices

Posted: 24 Mar 2025 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Huimin (Amy) Chen

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Tingting he

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Qiliang Liu

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates how auditors make career decisions in the wake of an audit failure. Using unique and comprehensive individual-level data from the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CICPA), we examine auditors’ responses to the shock of the Wuyang Bond audit failure in China. We argue and find that auditors are exposed to heightened regulatory risk following such failures and are thus more likely to leave the firm. This effect is more pronounced among managers, associates, signatory auditors, and older auditors. In contrast, auditors who choose to stay and assume the elevated post-failure risk are more likely to experience career advancement. Our study provides insights into how auditors weigh risk and reward to navigate post-failure career choices, highlighting both the risks of staying in a troubled firm and the potential career rewards of persevering through a crisis with the affiliated firm.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Huimin (Amy) and he, Tingting and Liu, Qiliang and Wu, Qiang, To Leave or to Stay During a Crisis: Auditors’ Career Choices (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5171911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5171911
 Not Available for Download
43 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
The Turnover, Retention, and Career Advancement of Female and Racial Minority Auditors: Evidence from Individual LinkedIn Data. Retention, and Career Advancement of Female and Racial Minority Auditors: Evidence from Individual LinkedIn Data Posted: 2023-06-22
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
Labor Supply Drought: The Case of Accountant Talent Shortage and Audit Outcomes Posted: 2024
N Anderson , R Schalk
The psychological contract in retrospect and prospect
Journal of organizational behavior , volume 19 , p. 637 - 647 Posted: 1998
D Aobdia , Q Li , K Na , H Wu
The Influence of Labor Market Power in the Audit Profession
The Accounting Review , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
225
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies