Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Governance on Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Nigerian Manufacturing Firms (2014-2023)

17 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2025

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: March 07, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of corporate governance on the quality of financial reporting at Cadbury Nigeria Plc between 2014 and 2023. Specifically, it examines the influence of board size (BSIZE), board composition (BCOMP), and directors' remuneration (DREM) on the company's return on assets (ROA). Employing an ex-post-facto research design, the study analyzes secondary data using trend analysis, SWOT analysis, and regression techniques via E-Views software; additionally, a PESTEL analysis is incorporated to explore external factors that may influence the organization. The findings indicate that none of the corporate governance factors-BSIZE, BCOMP, or DREMsignificantly impact ROA, with p-values of 0.9228, 0.3812, and 0.4305, respectively, all exceeding the 0.05 significance threshold. Furthermore, the overall regression model is not statistically significant (p = 0.520073). These results suggest that, corporate governance factors do not play a significant role in determining the quality of financial reporting. The study urges caution in the widespread belief that board independence directly correlates with improved financial performance, highlighting potential misinterpretations of this relationship. It recommends a reassessment of governance strategies, advocating for more targeted approaches to enhance financial performance beyond structural governance reforms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, board size, board composition, directors' remuneration and financial reporting

Declaration of Interest

no personal or financial relationship

Ethics Approval

As the study is based on secondary data, all sources of data have been properly cited and referenced to ensure transparency and data integrity. I have also ensured that the data used is publicly available and does not involve any unethical practices such as data fabrication or misrepresentation. The ethical considerations for this research primarily focus on responsible data usage, proper acknowledgment of original sources, and adherence to relevant copyright and intellectual property laws.

Funder Statement

self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, The Impact of Corporate Governance on Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from Nigerian Manufacturing Firms (2014-2023) (March 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5172407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5172407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
B A Abubakar , A I Mohammed , Z Usman
Corporate governance and financial reporting: Evidence from Nigerian manufacturing sector
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 93 - 112 Posted: 2020
A A Adediran , H A Salawu
Directors' compensation and firm performance: Empirical evidence from Nigerian manufacturing firms
Journal of Accounting and Financial Management , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 64 Posted: 2021
A A Adediran , H A Salawu
Board diversity and financial reporting quality in Nigerian manufacturing firms
South Asian Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 155 Posted: 2021
F Adeola , O A Adewale , K
Transparent and accountable corporate governance in the capital market: challenges formarket operators and stakeholders. Nigerian Stock Market Annual Adeyemi
Journal of Business Economics and Management , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 1089 - 1105 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,623
RANK
236,690
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies