Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Earnings Growth, Credit Market Distress, and Future Real U.S. GDP and GDI Growth

31 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2025 Last revised: 22 May 2025

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Andre Mollick

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Economics and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

We examine the ability of Aggregate Earnings Growth (AEG) and the Excess Bond Premium (EBP) to predict future real Gross Domestic Product (RGDP) and real Gross Domestic Income (RGDI). Using quarterly U.S. data from 1982Q3 to 2023Q4, we find that AEG has positive effects on future RGDP and RGDI, particularly the latter, capturing internal investment expectations. In contrast, EBP has negative effects on both aggregates, reflecting tighter credit conditions and reduced investment propensity. Structural vector autoregressions (SVAR) models further demonstrate the same pattern for AEG and EBP for about eight quarters. These results suggest the complementary nature of these predictors. Our findings underscore that AEG and EBP jointly offer a comprehensive view of future economic activity, particularly when incorporating the relatively underexplored RGDI in macroeconomics literature. This study contributes to the understanding of business cycle dynamics and the channels through which accounting and financial indicators influence the real economy.

Keywords: gross domestic product, gross domestic income, excess bond premium, Aggregate Earnings Growth, Macro-accounting

JEL Classification: E01, E37, M41

Suggested Citation:

Almeida, Jose Elias and Mollick, Andre, Aggregate Earnings Growth, Credit Market Distress, and Future Real U.S. GDP and GDI Growth (May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5172913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5172913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A M Abdalla , J M Carabias
From accounting to economics: The role of aggregate special items in gauging the state of the economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
B M Balk
GDP, GDI, and Trading Gains: An Alternative View
Review of Income and Wealth , volume 71 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
R Ball , G Sadka , R Sadka
Aggregate earnings and asset prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1097 - 1133 Posted: 2009
R Ball , G Sadka
Aggregate earnings and why they matter
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 34 , p. 39 - 57 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies