Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Navigating ESG Storms: The Role of ESG Pay and Earnings-based Incentive in CEO Compensation

Posted: 25 Mar 2025 Last revised: 29 Jul 2025

Yu Flora Kuang

University of Melbourne

Bo Qin

The University of Melbourne

Shuying Wu

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 07, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how boards adjust ESG-linked and earnings-based incentives in CEO compensation following ESG scandals and the impact of these adjustments on corporate performance. Using a sample of 749 ESG scandals from 2007 to 2020, we find that reducing earnings-based incentives is a prevalent response among implicated firms, with these reductions typically persisting for up to three years. Compared to their peers, firms that implement this adjustment tend to experience higher firm value, lower shareholder dissent in Say-on-Pay votes, fewer future ESG scandals, and improved subsequent financial performance. While we observe some evidence of increased ESG-linked pay following scandals, firms that increase ESG pay without also reducing earnings incentives are not associated with comparable performance improvements. Collectively, our findings suggest that rather than simply increasing or layering ESG metrics onto existing compensation structures, easing short-term financial pressures by reducing earnings-based pay is an effective step toward promoting substantive sustainability improvements.

Suggested Citation:

Kuang, Yu and Qin, Bo and Wu, Shuying,

Navigating ESG Storms: The Role of ESG Pay and Earnings-based Incentive in CEO Compensation

(March 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5172011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5172011
 Not Available for Download
68 References
M A Abernethy , L Jiang , Y F Kuang
Can organizational identification mitigate the CEO horizon problem
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 78 Posted: 2019
P Akey , S Lewellen , I Liskovich , C Schiller
Hacking corporate reputations Posted: 2024
A Albuquerque , M E Carter , Z M Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
A Amin , A Hossain , T Ranasinghe
Carbon emissions and CEO pay. Accounting & Finance Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies