Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informed Trading Competition and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

38 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2025

Harold Contreras

University of Chile - Faculties of Economics and Business; University of Warwick, Warwick Business School

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

The Post-Earnings Announcement Drift (PEAD) is one of the most prevailing anomalies in stock markets. This paper examines the impact of competition for trading between insiders and short sellers on the PEAD. Using a sample of U.S. stocks from 2006 to 2017, we show that when both insiders and short sellers agree and trade the same stocks shortly after the publication of earnings, the PEAD reduces significantly more than during times when they do not agree. This attenuating effect over the PEAD is also more pronounced for short sales than insider sales, as the latter is usually executed for liquidity or diversification. Moreover, the reduction in the PEAD is concentrated in firms with greater information uncertainty and in the trades made by a firm's CEOs and/or CFOs rather than other executives or non-executive directors. Overall, this paper sheds light on the crucial role of competition for trading in reducing information asymmetries after earnings announcements.

Keywords: Insider trading, Short selling, Informed trading, Earnings announcements JEL Classification: G14, G19, G39, M41

Suggested Citation:

Contreras, Harold, Informed Trading Competition and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift (January 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5173167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5173167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D M Alldredge , D C Cicero
Attentive insider trading
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
P Asquith , P Pathak , J Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
B C Ayers , O Z Li , P E Yeung
Investor trading and the post-earningsannouncement drift
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 416 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
908
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies