Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Formal and Informal Language in Earnings Conference Calls

73 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2025

Mengyang Billy Guo

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Division of Accounting

Kin Lo

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: March 06, 2025

Abstract

Formal language can be viewed as dull and uninteresting, especially in verbal contexts, while informal language is often seen as more engaging for listeners and easier to understand. Using a formality measure from linguistics, this paper investigates whether the use of informal language in earnings conference calls clarifies or obscures information. We find that informal language is associated with more divergent beliefs among investors. Moreover, both stock market returns and analyst forecast revisions following these calls tend to be more negative, suggesting that investors and analysts are wary of firms using informal language. Further analysis indicates that the use of informal language is associated with lower subsequent earnings, more negative earnings surprises, and lower returns around subsequent earnings announcements. These findings suggest that managers employ informal language not to enhance clarity but, rather, to strategically obscure bad news. This paper contributes to our understanding of linguistic choices in corporate disclosure and introduces a new linguistic measure to the accounting and finance literature.

Keywords: JEL Codes: M40, M41 conference calls, linguistic formality, market reactions, analyst forecast revisions, future performance

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Mengyang and Lo, Kin, Formal and Informal Language in Earnings Conference Calls (March 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5174884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5174884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
K D Allee , C Do , H Do
Contextualization of numbers in earnings conference calls Posted: 2023
K D Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product market competition, disclosure framing, and casting in earnings conference calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
B D Bernheim , M D Whinston
Incomplete contracts and strategic ambiguity
American Economic Review , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 902 - 932 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
324,308
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies