Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Markets Union: A Deep Dive - Five Measures to Foster a Single Market for Capital

ECB Occasional Paper No. 2025/369

97 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2025

Alexia-Styliani Arampatzi

European Central Bank (ECB)

Rebecca Christie

Bruegel

Johanne Evrard

European Central Bank (ECB)

Laura Parisi

European Central Bank (ECB)

Clément Rouveyrol

European Central Bank (ECB)

Fons van Overbeek

European Central Bank (ECB)

Date Written: March, 2025

Abstract

The European Union requires a single market for capital. Well-developed and integrated capital markets support economic growth and resilience across the region, offering benefits for businesses, households, and financial stability. This paper examines the importance of CMU in achieving five strategic objectives: supporting innovation and productivity, financing the twin transition, shoring up pension savings, strengthening alternatives to bank financing, and fostering convergence and inclusion. It highlights the progress made over the past decade, the challenges encountered, and the renewed impetus behind the CMU initiative. The paper proposes concrete steps to move forward, building on long-standing priorities supported by the ECB and the current policy debate on CMU. First, it suggests facilitating access to capital markets, via the creation of a new standard for a European savings and investment product. Second, it emphasises the importance of expanding capital markets across-borders which would be facilitated by improvements towards a more integrated supervisory ecosystem, an integrated trading and post-trading landscape leveraging on the potential benefits of digitalisation, and a more active securitisation market that does not compromise on financial stability. Third, the paper highlights the need to channel capital towards innovative and competitive firms by increasing opportunities for equity and venture capital financing. These actions should be complemented by longer-term initiatives, including continuing to address barriers stemming from the lack of harmonisation in insolvency, corporate and taxation regimes, designing a safe asset for Europe, completing the Banking Union, and promoting financial literacy and inclusion.

Keywords: capital markets union, convergence, financial integration, innovation financing, savings

JEL Classification: E61, F36, G18, G24, G51, O16

Suggested Citation:

Arampatzi, Alexia-Styliani and Christie, Rebecca and Evrard, Johanne and Parisi, Laura and Rouveyrol, Clément and Overbeek, Fons van, Capital Markets Union: A Deep Dive - Five Measures to Foster a Single Market for Capital (March, 2025). ECB Occasional Paper No. 2025/369, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5175495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5175495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
Afme
Capital Markets Union: Key Performance Indicators, Sixth Edition Posted: 2023-11
M Andersson , C Nerlich , C Pasqua , D Rusinova
Massive investment needs to meet EU green and digital targets Posted: 2024
P Asimakopoulos , E Friis Hamre , W Wright
A New Vision for EU Capital Markets
New Financial report Posted: 2022-02
A Bakker , R Beetsma , M Buti
Investing in European Public Goods While Maintaining Fiscal Discipline at Home
Intereconomics: Review of European Economic Policy , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 98 - 103 Posted: 2024-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
253,593
1 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Central Bank Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies