Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Some CEOs We Trust, All Others Must Disclose

46 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2025 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Kevin D. Chen

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

John C. Heater

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: March 11, 2025

Abstract

Trust is widely believed to facilitate financial market transactions and potentially substitute the need for firm disclosure. However, empirical evidence regarding the impact of trust on disclosure is scarce, due to challenges in measuring trust and the fact that disclosure itself is often necessary to build trust. We address these challenges using novel survey data on firms' CEOs, CFOs, and investor relations. We find that higher CEO trust allows the firm to be less transparent in providing forward-looking guidance. The substitution between trust and disclosure is more pronounced for quantitative guidance and less-established firms. Moreover, the substitution effect changes non-monotonically in information complexity, with the greatest effect being at intermediate levels of complexity, consistent with recent theoretical developments.

Keywords: Trust, Voluntary Disclosure, CEO

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Kevin and Heater, John C. and Venkatachalam, Mohan, In Some CEOs We Trust, All Others Must Disclose (March 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5175202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5175202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Daron Acemoglu , Simon Johnson , James A Robinson
Institutions as a fundamental cause of long-run growth
Handbook of Economic Growth , volume 1 , p. 385 - 472 Posted: 2005
Amel-Zadeh , Alexandra Amir , Eugene F Scherf , Soltes
Creating firm disclosures
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 4 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2019
Kenneth J Arrow
Economic welfare and the allocation of resources for invention Posted: 1972
Anil Arya , Hans Frimor , Brian Mittendorf
Discretionary disclosure of proprietary information in a multisegment firm
Management Science , volume 56 , p. 645 - 658 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
420,501
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies