Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Institutionalization of the Balance Sheet Approach in Standard Setting

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

53 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2025

Jivas Chakravarthy

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Nargiz Goloshchapova

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 16, 2025

Abstract

In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board declared that their conceptual framework drove their adoption of the “balance sheet approach.”  We first document that the framework, which was critiqued as ambiguous and internally inconsistent, contains significant elements supporting both the balance sheet approach and the income statement approach.  Next, we examine every authoritative reference to the framework in pre-codification standards and find that, during its implementation (1987–2009), the FASB systematically favors its balance-sheet-approach elements.  Notably, this result is driven by an exponential increase in the frequency of balance-sheet-approach citations shortly after the FASB’s 1998 declaration, largely arising from standards that apply fair value measurements to non-financial assets and liabilities.  We contribute to the standard setting literature by (i) documenting a discrete shift in the FASB’s implementation of fair values around 1998 and (ii) demonstrating that standard setters can change how they use a framework and can strategically co-opt it to justify preferred policies.  Importantly, we challenge the accepted notion that the FASB’s conceptual framework endorsed the balance sheet approach ex ante, arguing instead that the FASB constructed this narrative ex post and reinforced it through their use of the framework, thereby institutionalizing the balance sheet approach in standard setting.

Keywords: Balance sheet approach, Conceptual framework, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Institutionalization, International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Standard setting

JEL Classification: D73, G18, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chakravarthy, Jivas and Goloshchapova, Nargiz, The Institutionalization of the Balance Sheet Approach in Standard Setting (February 16, 2025). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5175200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5175200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
158 References
S P Agrawal
On the conceptual framework of accounting
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 6 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 1987
Aicpa
Establishing Financial Accounting Standards: Report of the Study on Establishment of Accounting Principles Posted: 1972
Objectives of Financial Statements: Report of the Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements Posted: 1973
S S Alexander
Income Measurement in a Dynamic Economy
Five Monographs on Business Income , p. 1 - 95 Posted: 1950
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
798,750
158 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies