Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whispering Progress: Fear of Automation and Voluntary Disclosure

65 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2025 Last revised: 5 Jul 2025

Jun Oh

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

We provide evidence that firms tailor their disclosure policies to achieve the objectives of task automation and workforce stability. Using local cable news transcripts to measure the fear of job displacement due to automation, we find that firms reduce public disclosures about their automation strategies when automation fear intensifies. The diminished disclosure is more pronounced for forward-looking and specific automation plans, in industries with occupations more susceptible to displacement, and when unfavorable employee reactions are more likely. To strengthen identification, we exploit two quasi-natural experiments: layoffs by local high- tech firms and the introduction of ChatGPT. We also find suggestive evidence that firms increase private communication with investors to compensate for the reduction in public information provision. Overall, our findings shed light on the trade-offs between maintaining transparency and mitigating adverse employee responses in the era of rapid technological advancement.

Keywords: Job Displacement, Disclosure, Automation, Robot, Artificial Intelligence

JEL Classification: J4, M4, O3

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Jun and She, Guoman, Whispering Progress: Fear of Automation and Voluntary Disclosure (March 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5176901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5176901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Tasks, automation, and the rise in US wage inequality
Econometrica , volume 90 , issue 5 , p. 1973 - 2016 Posted: 2022
D Acemoglu , D Autor , J Hazell , P Restrepo
Artificial intelligence and jobs: Evidence from online vacancies
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 40 , issue S1 , p. 293 - S340 Posted: 2022
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,023
RANK
144,509
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies