Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gambling Attitudes and Corporate Social Responsibility

Journal of Economics and Finance, 0[10.1007/s12197-025-09706-0]

Posted: 15 May 2025

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Sunghoon Joo

California State University Dominguez Hills

Sang Mook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - Great Valley School of Graduate Professional Studies

HakJoon Song

California State University, Dominguez Hills

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

Based on the advanced prospect theory, this study argues that firms tend to overweight the positive tail of distribution hence in favor of positively skewed or lottery-like investments when facing low probability of large potential positive payoffs. Since corporate social responsibility (CSR) engagement puts greater emphasis on large potential (monetary and non-monetary) benefits, we hypothesize that CSR engagement is related to investors and local community gambling attitudes. Using a sample of 13,410 firm-year observations across 1,642 U.S. firms from 1996 to 2018, we find that firms with positive stock returns skewness tend to have greater CSR strength, which represents firms' CSR engagements. Second, we find that local gambling attitudes, measured by the ratio of Catholics to Protestants adherences where firms' headquarters are located, are positively related to CSR performance. Furthermore, local gambling attitudes are more positively related to institutional CSR than technical CSR. Our main results are robust after we control for potential endogeneity issue and under difference-indifference analysis based on firms' headquarters relocation. Therefore, this study shows that gambling attitudes could promote firms' CSR initiatives to meet broader stakeholders' interests.

Keywords: Gambling attitudes, corporate social responsibility, positively skewed returns, institutional and technical CSR JEL Classifications: G30, M14, G39, G40

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

None

Funder Statement

Denney Academic Chair 2019-2021 and 2023-2024 Provost Grant at Pepperdine University

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Joo, Sunghoon and Lee, Sang Mook and Song, HakJoon, Gambling Attitudes and Corporate Social Responsibility (March 14, 2025). Journal of Economics and Finance, 0[10.1007/s12197-025-09706-0], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178801
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies