Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Treading Lightly: Peer Firms' Strategic Nondisclosure during Merger Antitrust Reviews

47 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2025

Farzana Afrin

California State University, Fullerton; Boston College

Natalie Berfeld

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Mark Piorkowski

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Lauren Vollon

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 15, 2025

Abstract

We study whether and how firms strategically alter their disclosures to influence the regulatory outcomes of mergers that involve their peers. We hypothesize and find evidence that industry peers who stand to benefit from market consolidation refrain from issuing positive news press releases during antitrust review periods, as such disclosures may signal peers' market power or profitability and trigger increased antitrust scrutiny. Strategic nondisclosure is concentrated among peers who are likely to benefit most from the merger (i.e., peers with a high market share, positive market reactions to the merger announcement, and improved ex-post operating performance). Moreover, we find that peers' strategic nondisclosure is associated with faster termination of the review, suggesting that the strategy facilitates merger completion. Our findings extend prior studies on disclosure spillovers by showing that firms incorporate regulatory events involving their peers into their disclosure decisions.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, antitrust, peer firm disclosures

JEL Classification: D62, D83, G34, K21, L40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Afrin, Farzana and Berfeld, Natalie and Piorkowski, Mark and Vollon, Lauren and Yost, Benjamin, Treading Lightly: Peer Firms' Strategic Nondisclosure during Merger Antitrust Reviews (March 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5179610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5179610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R M Adams , D F Amel
The effects of past entry, market consolidation, and expansion by incumbents on the probability of entry Posted: 2007
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
M Anton , J Azar , M Gine , L X Lin
Beyond the target: M&A decisions and rival ownership
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 66 Posted: 2022
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, product market competition, and strategic disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
664
RANK
432,018
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies