Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Female Directors' Role on Capital Structure and Firm Performance Nexus: New Evidence from an Emerging Market -Nigeria

13 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2025

Idorenyin J. Okon

The University of Ibadan, Nigeria

clement edojor ozele

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 15, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the moderating role of female board directors on the relationship between capital structure and firm performance in Nigerian non-financial firms. The study builds on previous research that highlights the importance of gender diversity in corporate governance and its potential to enhance firm outcomes. Using data from 70 non-financial firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group from 2012 to 2021, the study applies the two-step system GMM approach to mitigate endogeneity issues. It focuses on various capital structure measures, such as debt-to-asset and debt-to-equity ratios, and examines their relationship with firm performance, with the presence of female directors as a moderating variable. The study finds that female directors moderate the relationship between capital structure and firm performance, improving the impact of debt levels on profitability while reducing market performance. This study contributes to literature by providing new evidence from an emerging market context on how board gender diversity influences financial decision-making and firm outcomes in Nigeria.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Firm Performance, Female Board Directors, Corporate Governance, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Okon, Idorenyin J. and ozele, clement edojor, Female Directors' Role on Capital Structure and Firm Performance Nexus: New Evidence from an Emerging Market -Nigeria (March 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5179861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5179861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
H Abdullah , T Tursoy
Capital structure and firm performance: evidence of Germany under IFRS adoption
Review of Managerial Science , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 379 - 398 Posted: 2021
S N Abdullah
The causes of gender diversity in Malaysian large firms
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1137 - 1159 Posted: 2014
F A Hashim , H A Mansour , M Alahdal , W M
Role on Capital Structure and Firm Performance Nexus: New Evidence from an Emerging Market -Nigeria Page |44| Emerging Markets Journal Almaqtari
International Journal of Procurement Management , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
H N Anh , T D Duong , W S Yoon
Capital structure and firm financial performance in Vietnam
International Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 122 - 132 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
282
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies