Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Secrets vs. Scrutiny: The Clash between Societal Secrecy and Voluntary External Audits

49 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2025

Michael Machokoto

University of the Witwatersrand; African Development Bank Group (AfDB)

Akios Majoni

University of Cape Town (UCT) - Department of Finance and Tax

Abstract

Using a large survey dataset comprising 43,339 enterprises from 51 countries spanning 2006 to 2023, we investigate the impact of societal secrecy on the likelihood that private enterprises, where external audits are non-mandatory, choose to have their financial statements checked and certified by external auditors. Our analysis reveals that enterprises in countries with higher levels of societal secrecy are significantly less likely to undergo external audits. These findings are robust to various concerns and suggest that societal secrecy significantly influences the transparency and accountability of enterprises. Additionally, the negative influence of societal secrecy on external audit likelihood is moderated by institutional development, underscoring the importance of enhancing institutional frameworks to mitigate the adverse effects of societal secrecy on corporate accountability and transparency globally.

Keywords: External audits, institutions, emerging markets, private enterprises

Suggested Citation:

Machokoto, Michael and Majoni, Akios, Secrets vs. Scrutiny: The Clash between Societal Secrecy and Voluntary External Audits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5180522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5180522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Allam , T Moussa , M Abdelhady , A Yamen
National culture and tax evasion: The role of the institutional environment quality
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 52 Posted: 2023
Z An , D Li , J Yu
Earnings management, capital structure, and the role of institutional environments
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 68 , p. 131 - 152 Posted: 2016
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
C W Bame-Aldred , J B Cullen , K D Martin , K P Parboteeah
National culture and firm-level tax evasion
Journal of Business Research , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 390 - 396 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies