Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Sustainability Standards Revisited

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 184

7 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Erika Bognar

Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

In an empirical study, we examine the interplay of firms' performance in social sustainability, mandatory disclosures of social sustainability, firms' financial performance, and informativeness of social sustainability indicators. We use data from Refinitiv and the exogenous change in the regulatory environment (Directive 2014/95/EU in 2014 and its implementations in EU countries) to investigate whether mandatory disclosures of social sustainability lead to better social performance and if social performance is related to firm performance. Moreover, we match the social sustainability metrics disclosed by firms with the exposure drafts for sustainability disclosure standards by the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) to identify whether the metrics that will most probably become part of future regulation for mandatory disclosures are also informative with respect to financial performance. We find that mandatory disclosure requirements increase social performance and that social and financial performance are positively linked. Moreover, we find that several metrics included in the exposure drafts for sustainability disclosure standards are not informative with respect to financial performance, whereas other metrics that are currently not included in the standards are highly informative. Our results have important implications for firms' disclosure strategies as well as for regulators and standard-setters regarding the implementation of disclosure standards on sustainability issues.

Keywords: Sustainability, Social Sustainability, Disclosure Standards, Sustainability Disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Bognar, Erika and Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna, Social Sustainability Standards Revisited (December 21, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 184, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5181535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5181535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
G Aras , D Crowther
Corporate Sustainability Reporting: A Study in Disingenuity?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 87 , p. 279 - 288 Posted: 2019
V Baid , V Jayaraman
Amplifying and promoting the "S" in ESG investing: the case for social responsibility in supply chain financing
Managerial Finance , volume 48 , issue 8 , p. 1279 - 1297 Posted: 2022
H R Bowen
Social Responsibilities of the Businessman Posted: 1953
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
311
RANK
658,366
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies