Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Pay Ratio Disclosure and Employee Restructuring

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 183

50 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025 Last revised: 17 Apr 2025

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Victor Schauer

LMU Munich School of Management

Nina Schwaiger

Technical University of Darmstadt; LMU Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

This study examines how firms respond to CEO pay ratio transparency regulations by engaging in employee restructuring. Using a unique pay ratio disclosure setting in France, where firms calculate pay ratios at the headquarters level, we analyze whether companies strategically engage in employee restructuring to reduce the disclosed pay ratio. Our difference-indifferences design compares affected French firms with a control group of German firms, leveraging granular firm data from 2014 to 2021. We find that some French firms increase employee average compensation at the headquarters level by relocating higher-paid employees into the scope of the calculation, effectively lowering the pay ratio without reducing CEO pay. Our results are robust across various specifications and contribute to the understanding of corporate responses to transparency mandates.

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Christian and Schauer, Victor and Schwaiger, Nina, CEO Pay Ratio Disclosure and Employee Restructuring (November 18, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 183, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5181529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5181529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Z S Alam , C Ghosh , H E Ryan , L Wang
Discretion in pay ratio estimation Posted: 2023
S A Bank , G S Georgiev
Securities disclosure as soundbite: The case of CEO pay ratios
Boston College Law Review , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1123 - 1202 Posted: 2019
A H Benedetti , S Chen
High CEO-to-worker pay ratios negatively impact consumer and employee perceptions of companies
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology , volume 79 , p. 378 - 393 Posted: 2018
J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon , L Naveen
Does the use of peer groups contribute to higher pay and less efficient compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 152 - 168 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
RANK
631,426
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies