Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Soft Information, Career Concerns, and Team Design

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 182

41 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Konstantin Flassak

LMU Munich School of Management

Christian Hofmann

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

We study the impact of soft information on the configuration of teams. In the model, the agents have explicit incentives to exert effort based on performance-dependent compensation contracts and implicit incentives to exert effort based on career concerns. In the case of uniform teams, the principal assigns agents with similar abilities to a team. In contrast, in the case of diverse teams, the principal assigns agents with different abilities to a team. We find that the characteristics of the available information are important determinants of optimal team design. For example, when only hard information about agent abilities is available, the principal tends to favor uniform teams. Conversely, when soft information about agent abilities is also available, the principal tends to favor diverse teams when the agents’ efforts significantly impact firm performance. Our study contributes to the growing body of literature that illuminates the interrelations between incentives, information, and organizational design.  

Keywords: Soft information, Career concerns, Incentives, Uniform teams, Diverse teams

JEL Classification: D83, L14, L22, M12

Suggested Citation:

Flassak, Konstantin and Hofmann, Christian, Soft Information, Career Concerns, and Team Design (November 18, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 182, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5181525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5181525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
R Antle , J S Demski
The controllability principle in responsibility accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 700 - 718 Posted: 1988
M Arnold , R L Hannan , I D Tafkov
Team member subjective communication in homogeneous and heterogeneous teams
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The benefits of aggregate performance metrics in the presence of career concerns
Management Science , volume 57 , issue 8 , p. 1424 - 1437 Posted: 2011
A Arya , R N V Ramanan
Team design and its implications for competition and disclosure Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
RANK
914,805
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies