Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Covid-19 Lockdowns on Financial Reporting Behavior

50 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2025

F. Jane Barton

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Subprasiri Siriviriyakul

University of Connecticut - School of Business

Abstract

This study examines the effect of COVID-19 lockdowns on firms’ financial reporting behavior. We exploit the timing of statewide COVID-19 lockdowns relative to firms’ reporting dates to examine the financial reporting behavior of firms reporting during a crisis on a financial reporting period that ended before that crisis to separate the economic consequences of the crisis from the resultant reporting behavior. We find remote reporting during the first months of the pandemic is associated with downward earnings management, as measured by negative performance-matched discretionary accruals. We further show that this earnings management is associated with goodwill impairment charges but not with restructuring, special items, or tax manipulation. We also consider the possible mechanism for these findings and find evidence that our results are driven by managerial opportunism. Overall, our findings suggest the COVID-19 lockdowns influenced financial reporting behavior for reporting periods that ended before the pandemic was widespread and resulted in a tendency towards over-recognition of losses.

Keywords: COVID-19, pandemic, remote reporting, Earnings management, Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Barton, F. Jane and Sheneman, Amy and Siriviriyakul, Subprasiri, The Impact of Covid-19 Lockdowns on Financial Reporting Behavior. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5183797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5183797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Consequences of COVID-19: Potential auditing challenges. Center for Plain English Accounting (CPEA) , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
D Aubin , S Chatterjee
Analysis: As more U.S. audit work moves to India Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
658,366
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies