Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Venture Capital Contracting as Bargaining in the Shadow of Corporate Law Constraints

LawFin Working Paper No. 54

SAFE Working Paper No. 445

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 833/2025

55 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2025 Last revised: 24 Mar 2025

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Casimiro Antonio Nigro

University of Leeds School of Law; Goethe University Frankfurt; Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Law

Tobias H. Troeger

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

Venture capital (“VC”) has built a solid reputation for spurring innovation and economic growth, thus emerging as a crown jewel of the U.S. economy since the 1980s. The development of the U.S. VC market has benefited from the enabling nature of U.S. (Delaware) corporate law, which allows parties to devise a complex contractual framework that economists consider the best real-world solution to the market frictions bedeviling the finance of high-tech innovative projects.

The law and finance literature has paid attention to corporate law as one of the determinants of VC investments by examining how variations in shareholder protection shape VC contracting. It has underscored the importance of flexible corporate law to enable the tailor-made arrangements that define VC-backed firms’ unique governance structure. Vice versa, it has also documented anecdotally how mandatory corporate laws can impede the adoption and use of some specific components of the U.S. contractual framework.

This article contributes to this literature, first, by conceptualizing, in a general theoretical framework, the role that flexible or rigid corporate law in action plays in supporting or hindering VC. Second, it identifies the channels through which mandatory corporate law constrains VC contracting. Third, it documents the real-world significance of these phenomena by illustrating how the constraints stemming from the corporate law regimes in force in two European jurisdictions, namely Germany and Italy, impact the transplant of the contractual framework governing VC deals in the U.S.

Keywords: Comparative Corporate Law, Comparative Corporate Governance, Entrepreneurship, Financial Contracting, Private ordering, Start-ups, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: G38, K22, L26

Suggested Citation:

Enriques, Luca and Nigro, Casimiro Antonio and Tröger, Tobias Hans, Venture Capital Contracting as Bargaining in the Shadow of Corporate Law Constraints (March 01, 2025). LawFin Working Paper No. 54, SAFE Working Paper No. 445, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 833/2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5183235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5183235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
See Juanita , González-Uribe
Exchanges of Innovation Resources inside Venture Capital Portfolios
J Fin Econ
finding that exchanges of resources between portfolio companies increase by an average of 60% over the sample mean relative to exchanges between them and matched non-portfolio companies and that, as a result, returns to innovation in VC portfolios are higher than those of innovative firms that are not backed by VC) , volume 144 Posted: 2020
E G See , Laura Lindsey
Blurring Firm Boundaries: The Role of Venture Capital in Strategic Alliances
J Fin
finding that venture capitalists act as facilitators of value-creating alliances between portfolio firms that would not emerge without a common investor due to information problems , volume 1137 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
917
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,440
RANK
59,115
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies