Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IDLC's Market Reactions to Changes in the Audit Fees

22 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Khudeza Akter

Green University of Bangladesh

Date Written: March 19, 2025

Abstract

In this study, I investigate the effect of audit fees on the stock return and return on assets (ROA) of IDLC Finance PLC. The results indicate that higher audit fees are linked to a decrease in both ROA and stock market returns. This aligns with existing literature, which suggests that investors perceive an increase in audit fees as a cost, potentially prompting some to switch to other companies in search of better profitability prospects. Therefore, the observed decline in ROA and stock returns is justifiable. Additionally, I examine whether increased audit fees impact overall trade volume but find no significant statistical evidence supporting this. The findings of this study are relevant to stock market participants. Financial institutions aim to achieve several objectives, such as generating sufficient profit for dividends, providing shareholders with a reasonable return on investment, and reinvesting in the company by motivating employees, satisfying customers, and enhancing its community reputation. To meet these goals, the management of any financial institution must prioritize the effective use of its financial resources. Based on the analysis of this study, I find evidence suggesting that IDLC Finance PLC strives to meet its goals by effectively utilizing its resources.

Suggested Citation:

Akter, Khudeza, IDLC's Market Reactions to Changes in the Audit Fees (March 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5185879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5185879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
H Akono , H Choi , K E Karim
Convertible debt usage and the pricing of audit services
Accounting Horizons , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 21 - 43 Posted: 2022
J Black , J Hossain , S Mcfarland
Margin Trading and Price Dynamics on Cryptocurrency Exchanges Posted: 2024
H Chang , C Hsu , Z Ma
Does product similarity of audit clients influence audit efficiency and pricing decisions
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 49 , p. 807 - 840 Posted: 2022
D A Simunic
The pricing of audit services: Theory and evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 161 - 190 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies