Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Index Fund Ownership and Earnings Guidance Frequency Influence Managerial Myopia

33 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Brad Kamrath

Montana State University - Bozeman - College of Business

Brian Gale

University of Washington - Department of Accounting; University of Washington

Stephanie M. Grant

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Frank Hodge

University of Washington

Date Written: November 19, 2024

Abstract

Managerial myopia imposes significant costs on firms, stakeholders, and the overall economy. Research suggests that both a firm’s shareholder base and the frequency of its earnings guidance influence myopia. Shareholder bases have undergone significant changes in recent years as index fund ownership supplants long-term shareholder ownership, yet it is unclear how the growth of index funds affects managerial myopia. We experimentally examine how index fund ownership influences managers’ myopia, and how these effects vary based on firms’ earnings guidance frequency. Consistent with prior research, results show that the likelihood of myopic decision-making increases as earnings guidance frequency increases. Results also show that the likelihood of myopic decision-making increases as index funds replace long-term shareholders, but only for managers who provide frequent earnings guidance. Our results suggest that eliminating frequent earnings guidance to help curtail myopia may become even more important as index fund ownership grows and supplants long-term shareholder ownership.

Keywords: managerial myopia, index funds, shareholder base

Declaration of Interest

The authors of this article have no conflicts of interest related to this research.

Ethics Approval

The Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the university where data was collected approved the use of human subjects for the experiment reported in this paper.

JEL Classification: M41, G11, G31, C91, D83

Suggested Citation:

Kamrath, Brad and Gale, Brian and Grant, Stephanie M. and Hodge, Frank, How Index Fund Ownership and Earnings Guidance Frequency Influence Managerial Myopia (November 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5185442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5185442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
I Abramova , J Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investment attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
A A Acito
Does quarterly earnings guidance increase or reduce earnings management? Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2011
I Appel , T Gormley , D Keim
Passive investors, not passive owners
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 141 Posted: 2016
I Appel , T Gormley , D Keim
Standing on the shoulders of giants: The effect of passive investors on activism
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 7 , p. 2720 - 2774 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
479
RANK
672,649
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies