Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excessive Custom Xbrl Tag Usage in 10-K Filings and Sec Oversight

International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, volume 56, 2025[10.1016/j.accinf.2025.100742]

Posted: 20 Mar 2025

Daeun (Philip) Lee

California State Polytechnic University, San Luis Obispo - Accounting and Law Area

Joung W. Kim

Nova Southeastern University; Nova Southeastern University - H. Wayne Huizenga School of Business & Entrepreneurship

Date Written: March 19, 2025

Abstract

We conduct an in-depth examination of excessive custom XBRL tag usage in 10-K filings among U.S. firms. We discuss why some firms are prone to creating custom tags in 10-K filings and assess whether such excessive usage is associated with heightened regulatory attention from the SEC. First, we find that firms with weak internal controls are more likely to create custom tags in 10-K filings. Next, we observe a positive association between excessive custom tag usage and SEC oversight, evidenced by a higher likelihood of receiving comment letters and increased SEC involvement, which raises concerns over substantive disclosure deficiencies. In response to increased regulatory scrutiny, we document that firms reduce the proportion of custom tags in subsequent filings, and we find that SEC-reviewed custom tags enhance the informativeness of financial reports for investors. Collectively, our findings suggest that the excessive use of custom tags reflects a manifestation of firms’ disclosure deficiencies, which are mitigated during the SEC review process.

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Daeun and Kim, Joung W. and Kim, Joung W., Excessive Custom Xbrl Tag Usage in 10-K Filings and Sec Oversight (March 19, 2025). International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, volume 56, 2025[10.1016/j.accinf.2025.100742], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5186126
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
283
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies