Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Running without Moving? Corporate Disclosure and Annual Price Discovery in Bad versus Good Times

The Accounting Review July 2025, forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2025

Edward Xuejun Li

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

K. Ramesh

Rice University

Min Shen

George Mason University - Department of Accounting

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 25, 2025

Abstract

Ball and Brown (1968) introduce a method to measure accounting earnings' contribution to price discovery toward the end-of-period price. Building on this method, we examine a comprehensive set of corporate disclosures and document a large gap in their contribution to annual price discovery between bad and good news years (40 percent vs. over 60 percent), despite no such difference in stock return variance (partial R²). These patterns are consistent with managers proactively releasing good news to counteract negative news during bad news years. Our finding broadens the concept of news bundling from concurrent releases to intertemporal dynamics within an annual window. Voluntary press releases are a key driver of this disparity in price discovery, adding 3 percent in bad times while being the top contributor in good times (27 percent). Investor private information acquisition contributes to bridging the gap left by corporate disclosures in price discovery during bad news years.

Keywords: Price Discovery, Good versus Bad News, Private Information Acquisition

Suggested Citation:

Li, Edward Xuejun and Ramesh, K. and Shen, Min and Wu, Joanna S., Running without Moving? Corporate Disclosure and Annual Price Discovery in Bad versus Good Times (February 25, 2025). The Accounting Review July 2025, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5187036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5187036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
A Agrawal , G N Mandelker
Large shareholders and the monitoring of managers: The case of antitakeover charter amendments
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 1990
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
F Akbas , E Boehmer , B Erturk , S Sorescu
Short interest, returns, and unfavorable fundamental information
Financial Management , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 455 - 486 Posted: 2017
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue Supplement , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
115,595
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies