Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Leniency and the Cost of Deposits *

49 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2025

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Allison Nicoletti

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Jacob Ott

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Haiwen (Helen) Zhang

University of Minnesota

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether variation in regulatory leniency is associated with the cost of deposits in the banking industry. We predict that lenient regulatory supervision allows for greater bank risk-taking due to delayed intervention, thereby resulting in a higher cost of deposits. Our main finding is a positive association between banks' cost of uninsured deposits and the leniency of their state regulators, incremental to observable measures of risk and performance. We further show that this result is stronger for riskier banks and when uninsured depositors have a greater ability or incentive to influence deposit rates. These findings suggest that the leniency of bank regulators is priced in uninsured deposit rates and further our understanding of the factors associated with regulatory leniency in the banking industry.

Keywords: Banks, Regulatory Leniency, Cost of Deposits JEL Classifications: E43, G21, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Iselin, Michael and Nicoletti, Allison and Ott, Jacob and Zhang, Haiwen (Helen), Regulatory Leniency and the Cost of Deposits * (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5189874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
E Abrams
Assessing bank deposit market power given limited consumer consideration Posted: 2019
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
C Altavilla , M Boucinha , J.-L Peydró , F Smets
Banking supervision, monetary policy and risk-taking: big data evidence from 15 credit registers. Monetary Policy and Risk-Taking: Big Data Evidence from Posted: 2020
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial Accounting in the Banking Industry: A Review of the Empirical Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
713,531
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies