Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Fee Implications of Mandatory CSR

Posted: 17 Apr 2025 Last revised: 22 Mar 2025

Anup Nandialath

University of Wisconsin - La Crosse - Department of Management

Partha S. Mohapatra

California State University, Sacramento - Department of Accounting

GS Raina

University of Texas of Permian Basin

Date Written: January 06, 2025

Abstract

We examine the implications of mandatory corporate social responsibility (CSR) regulations on audit fees, using the implementation of Section 135 of India's Companies Act, 2013, as a quasi-natural experiment. The regulation, which mandated firms meeting specific financial thresholds to allocate 2% of their average net profits to CSR activities, provides a unique opportunity to examine the compliance-driven costs of CSR. Employing Differencein-Differences (DiD), Instrumental Variable (IV), and Regression Discontinuity (RD) designs, this study identifies a significant audit fee premium for firms impacted by the regulatory change. A key contribution of this study is the differentiation between the effects of mandatory and voluntary CSR on audit outcomes. While voluntary CSR often signals governance strength and reduces audit risk, mandatory CSR imposes external compliance obligations that heighten audit complexity and engagement risk. Firms already engaged in CSR before the regulation experienced no significant fee changes, suggesting the audit fee premium is driven by newly compliant firms potentially facing greater compliance and agency costs. This study extends the literature by integrating stakeholder and agency theory perspectives and offering critical insights for policymakers and auditors navigating the challenges of regulatory mandates.

Keywords: Audit fees, mandatory CSR, CSR Regulation, Compliance Costs

Suggested Citation:

Nandialath, Anup and Mohapatra, Partha S. and Raina, GS, Audit Fee Implications of Mandatory CSR (January 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189499
 Not Available for Download
41 References
J Aswani , N K Chidambaran , I Hasan
Who benefits from mandatory CSR? Evidence from the Indian Companies Act , volume 46 Posted: 2013
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-Based Causal Inference in Corporate Finance and Accounting Research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
V Atanasov , B Black
The Trouble with Instruments: The Need for Pretreatment Balance in Shock-Based Instrumental Variable Designs
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 1270 - 1302 Posted: 2021
Bamea , A A; Rubin
Corporate Social Responsibility as a Conflict between Shareholders
Journal of Business ethics , volume 97 , p. 71 - 86 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies