Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Precision Trap: How R&D Reclassification Distorts Investment

Posted: 25 Mar 2025 Last revised: 23 Mar 2025

Yvonne Han

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether and how the precision of item classification in the income statement affects investment efficiency. I use the recent Section 174 change in R&D tax deductibility as an instrument for shifts in R&D classification and build a simple model illustrating the trade-offs firms face. The model predicts that while firms initially reclassify R&D expenditures to mitigate higher costs of investment, this misclassification introduces noise into classification precision, eventually leading to underinvestment. Using R&D-related employment as a proxy for real investments and a difference-in-differences approach, I show that firms strategically reclassify R&D as expected, and find some evidence consistent with a deterioration in investment efficiency. In line with theoretical predictions, cross-sectional tests confirm that the effect is more pronounced among firms with higher initial classification precision. Collectively, these results demonstrate the important role of classification precision in investment efficiency and highlight how tax policy changes can spill over into corporate reporting, leading to real economic consequences.

Keywords: Reclassification, Accounting quality, R&D, Investment, Employment, TCJA

JEL Classification: E22, M48, E24, O31, H25

Suggested Citation:

Han, Yvonne, The Precision Trap: How R&D Reclassification Distorts Investment (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5190337
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies