Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of e-Learning Techniques in Conducting Professional Shari’ah Audit Training and Employability Prospects During the COVID-19

Teaching and Research Methods for Islamic Economics and Finance | Routledge 2022

Posted: 2 Jun 2025

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Mustafa Mohd Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Date Written: March 18, 2022

Abstract

The 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic is a new tragedy in human civilization. It was first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan, China and spread rapidly, resulting in an ongoing global pandemic. As COVID-19 is primarily spread between people during close contact, either via coughing, sneezing, or talking, social distancing became the leading prevention approach adopted by most countries, which have introduced restrictions on movement and lockdown orders, including Malaysia. Malaysia introduced several phases of movement control orders, also known as lockdowns, from 18–31 March, followed by 1–14 April, 15–28 April, 29 April–11 May, 12 May–9 June, 10 June–31 August, and the latest is from 1 September–31 December 2020. Since the introduction of lockdown, people are required to restrict their activities by working from home, and almost all economic sectors were closed except for essential services. Included in the essential services are food, healthcare, water, energy, security and defense, solid waste and public cleansing, communication, banking and finance, e-commerce, and logistics (Bernama, 2020a). As education sectors do not fall under the essential services category, all activities related to education were suspended. Apart from the normal classes, students and teachers cannot attend related physical education activities such as tuition, extra classes, sports training and co-curricular activities (Roslan, 2020). Moreover, other education programs, including tertiary education, as well as professional trainings and programs were also affected. Therefore, the online platform has been utilized as a medium for learning processes for all educational levels starting from kindergarten to tertiary and professional education. However, there is a concern about the issues and challenges faced, especially by students or participants in the e-learning processes via online platforms (Rashid et al., 2020). Even during this challenging period, a group of experts from USIM was involved in conducting a professional shariah training program known as the Certified Professional Shariah Audit (CPSA) program for bankers and students in Malaysia. In this chapter, the effectiveness of the e-learning approach and employability prospects related to the training program conducted during the pandemic to the students from various Malaysian universities throughout Malaysia are discussed.

Keywords: e-Learning Techniques, Shari’ah Audit, Employability Prospects, COVID-19

Suggested Citation:

Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Mohd Hanefah, Mustafa, Impact of e-Learning Techniques in Conducting Professional Shari’ah Audit Training and Employability Prospects During the COVID-19 (March 18, 2022).
Teaching and Research Methods for Islamic Economics and Finance | Routledge 2022
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193854
 Not Available for Download
18 References
Abu Karim , M
Online Platforms Erase Barriers to Learning
New Straits Times Posted: 2020-07-08
T Aguguom , A Ajayi , A Dare , O E
COVID-19 and Accounting Education in Sub-Sahara Africa
European Journal of Business, Economics and Accountancy , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2020
E A Alsadoon
The Potential of Implementing Online Professional Training Development for Faculty in the College of Education at King Saud University (Master's Dissertation Posted: 2009
Bernama
Five Additional Made to the List of Essential Services during Phase 3 of MCO. Malay Mail Posted: 2020-04-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
81
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies