Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability: The Origin of Governance, Assurance and Reporting

978-629-7636-08-5

10 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Mustafa Mohd Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Date Written: January 01, 2024

Abstract

This book endeavours to justify the importance of these financial management functions such as governance, assurance and reporting to solve or at least minimise the organizational corruption, embezzlement and mismanagement issues via accountability obligation schemes. These functions are important specifically when the economic situation of Muslim population and countries are referred to. The main focus of this book is not on successful stories for organization management, more significantly it is concerned with the issue of accountability by enabling stakeholders to gain confidence with organizations who are promoting these financial management functions in their operation. It is pleasing to note the various contexts in this book. Financial management functions such as governance, assurance and reporting in different sectors such as public, private and non-profit have been studied. This leads to the increasing need for context specific studies that would provide further insights into these functions in answering accountability especially in Malaysian context.

Keywords: Accountability, Governance, Assurance, Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Mohd Hanefah, Mustafa, Accountability: The Origin of Governance, Assurance and Reporting (January 01, 2024). 978-629-7636-08-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies