Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Impact of Audit Fees on IDLC’s Market Performance

30 Pages Posted: 30 May 2025

Khudeza Akter

Green University of Bangladesh

Date Written: March 25, 2025

Abstract

In this study, I examine the impact of audit fees on IDLC Finance PLC’s stock return and return on assets (ROA). I find evidence that increased audit fees are linked to a reduction of both the ROA and its stock market returns. This observation aligns with the literature suggesting that investors deem an increase in audit fees as a cost and, maybe, some of them are more likely to switch to other firms for a higher likelihood of profitability there. Thus, the findings of the lower ROA and stock return are reasonable. I also test if overall trade volume is also affected due to increased audit fees and find no statistically significant evidence of that. This study has implications for stock market participants.

Every financial institution aims to achieve several objectives, including generating enough profit to pay dividends, providing shareholders with a reasonable return on investment, and reinvesting in the company by motivating employees, satisfying customers, and improving its reputation in the community. To achieve these goals, the management of any financial institution must primarily focus on utilizing its financial resources effectively. From the analysis of this study, I find evidence suggesting that IDLC Finance PLC tries to achieve its stated goals by incorporating all of its resources.

Suggested Citation:

Akter, Khudeza,

Impact of Audit Fees on IDLC’s Market Performance

(March 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
173
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies