Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Migration Fear, Race-Related Biases and Analyst Forecast Accuracy

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-8

50 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2025 Last revised: 26 Mar 2025

Chi Wan

San Diego State University

Sean Wang

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Alptug Yorulmaz

The Métis Research Laboratory - EM Normandie

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether heightened migration fear impairs minority analysts' ability to access and convey accurate financial information. Using aggregate U.S. newspaper article counts regarding migration fear as a proxy for society wide sentiment about ethnic minorities and a sample of 1.3 million quarterly earnings announcements over 1990-2023, we find that elevated levels of the Migration Fear Index increase absolute forecast errors for Non-White analysts. For the average firm in our sample, a one standard deviation increase in migration fear leads to an additional 4 cents in EPS forecast error for Non-White analysts. Our results are robust across alternative measures of xenophobia, analyst accuracy, entropy-balanced samples, and fixed effects models. Using shocks to migration fear from the launch of the "Make America Great Again" Campaign in 2015, we observe that the shock selectively impairs Non-White analysts' forecast accuracy. Further analyses reveal that migration fear's impact on Non-White analyst forecast accuracy is driven by ethnic out-group bias, as the negative effects of xenophobia on Non-White analysts disappear when the CEO is also Non-White or when the firm is headquartered in a pro-immigrant area. Findings suggest that elevated levels of the Migration Fear Index lead to reduced information sharing with Non-White analysts, limiting their access to private information from management and thereby increasing their forecast error. We find no evidence of migration fear reducing Non-White accuracy through impaired cognitive processing capacity. These findings underscore the role of societal biases in shaping information access across capital markets, potentially hindering both price discovery and minority analysts' career development.

Keywords: Migration, immigration, financial analyst, earnings forecasts, earnings announcement, forecast accuracy

JEL Classification: J71

Suggested Citation:

Wan, Chi and Wang, Sean and Wang, Yakun and Yorulmaz, Alptug, Migration Fear, Race-Related Biases and Analyst Forecast Accuracy (March 26, 2025). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 25-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5193858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5193858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
M Alsan , O Garrick , G Graziani
Does diversity matter for health? experimental evidence from oakland
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 12 , p. 4071 - 4111 Posted: 2019
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
708,207
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies