Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PROFITABILITY ANALYSIS OF SAPTAKOSHI DEVELOPMENT BANK

29 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2025

Poonam Thapa

UGC

Date Written: July 20, 2024

Abstract

The word profitability is composed of two words profit and ability.The profitability may be defined as a ability of a given investment to earn return from users.Financial statement is the organized summary of the detailed information about the financial position and performance of the organization.

This chapter has been concerned with review of the literature relevant to the topic Profitability Analysis of Development Bank i.e Saptakoshi Development Bank Limited.Every study is very much based on the past knowledge and this research is done by using secondary data and follow quantitative method ;however, the previous studies cannot be ignored because they provide the foundation to the present study. In other word, there has to be continuity in research.A ratio is an expression of the quantitative relationship between two numbers.A ratio is simply one number expressed in terms of another.

Keywords: Bank and financial institution, profitability analysis, Profit margin, financial performance, financial tools, financial ratios, banking profitability, baking sector in Nepal

Suggested Citation:

Thapa, Poonam, PROFITABILITY ANALYSIS OF SAPTAKOSHI DEVELOPMENT BANK (July 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5194792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5194792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
D R Adhikari , D Pandey
Business Research Method Posted: 2023
P R Adhikari
Efficiency, Profitability and Stability of Nepalese Commercial Banks Posted: 2021
J Baral
A Comparative study of Profitability Analysis of Commercial Bank of Nepal Posted: 2018
B Dhakal
Profitability Analysis of Kamana Sewa Bikash Bank Ltd Posted: 2080
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
RANK
614,231
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies