Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EU omnibus package on sustainability -something we don't want to ride (yet)? "Omnibus I", CSRD (new) and the revised future of sustainability reporting in the EU: Evidence from Austria

16 Pages Posted: 1 May 2025

Josef Baumüller

Vienna University of Technology

Date Written: March 20, 2025

Abstract

In February 2025, the European Commission proposed its "first omnibus package on sustainability", aiming at simplification and deregulation of the current sustainability (reporting) regime in the EU. One important measure addresses the scope of companies falling under the CSRD, which should be considerably reduced by introducing a new threshold of 1,000 employees. However, the impact of this proposed threshold does not seem well analyzed. To contribute to the ongoing discussions, this paper analyzes a sample of approx. 32,000 Austrian companies retrieved from the Orbis database. The effects of the omnibus proposal with regard to the number of companies being excluded from the scope of the CSRD are assessed. Special consideration is given to effects resulting from group exemptions as well as over different sectors. The results underline that the reduction of companies subject to the CSRD reporting requirements might be considerable-and for a SME-dominated country like Austria arguably even more severe than expected by the European Commission. Also, different sectors are effected in a way that is not consistent with a sector's sustainability impacts or other considerations. It is suggested to either modify the threshold of 1,000 employees or-even better-to not set it outside of the Accounting Directive's three thresholds approach, i.e. not making this higher threshold a necessary prerequisite for reporting requirements but instead equally important as balance sheet total and net revenue. Also, an approach that better differentiates between sustainability impacts-e.g. by defining "high risk sectors"-would mitigate some of the limitations of the current proposals.

Keywords: CSRD, Omnibus

Suggested Citation:

Baumüller, Josef, EU omnibus package on sustainability -something we don't want to ride (yet)? "Omnibus I", CSRD (new) and the revised future of sustainability reporting in the EU: Evidence from Austria (March 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5195189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5195189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Baumüller
Von der nichtfinanziellen Berichterstattung zur neuen europäischen Nachhaltigkeitsberichterstattung Posted: 2023
Wirkungsorientierte Folgenabschätzung: Nachhaltigkeitsberichtsgesetz Posted: 2025
Draghi
The future of European competitiveness Posted: 2024
Efrag
Sector-specific ESRS Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,302
RANK
34,607
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies