Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading in Innovative Firms

Swedish House of Finance Research Paper No. 2025-01

43 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2025

Nicholas Guest

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Alexander Ljungqvist

Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Swedish House of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jean (Jieyin) Zeng

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: March 28, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates insider trading patterns in innovative firms. While prior research often attributes persistent insider trading profitability to governance failures, we argue that boards of innovative firms refrain from imposing restrictions on certain insider trades to help convey information about the firm's opaque R&D activities. We document that insider purchases, but not sales, are more profitable at firms with R&D expense than firms without. Inconsistent with governance failures, the profitability of insider purchases in R&D firms is more pronounced in well-governed firms and after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While there is a positive relation between insider purchases and stock illiquidity for firms with no reported R&D, this positive relation is entirely muted for R&D firms. Moreover, insiders purchase (do not sell) more shares after receiving positive (negative) exogenous surprises about the likelihood of patent approval. Insiders of R&D firms also purchase shares more intensely after the disclosure of major corporate events than before. Crucially, firms' future profits are higher and innovation outcomes are better subsequent to insider purchases. Collectively, our findings suggest that the persistent insider trading profitability in innovative firms is driven by insider purchases that help convey information about their firms' opaque R&D activities.

Keywords: Insider trading, Innovation, Corporate governance, Price discovery, Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Guest, Nicholas and Ljungqvist, Alexander and Ljungqvist, Alexander and Zeng, Jean and Zuo, Luo, Insider Trading in Innovative Firms (March 28, 2025). Swedish House of Finance Research Paper No. 2025-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5197872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5197872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
F Akbas , C Jiang , P D Koch
Insider investment horizon
Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 1579 - 1627 Posted: 2020
D M Alldredge , D C Cicero
Attentive insider trading
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 115 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,901
RANK
242,713
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swedish House of Finance Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies