Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Consequences of National Accounting

48 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Mallory Bell

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Suresh Nallareddy

University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Maria Ogneva

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: March 30, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether changes in national accounting methods affect equity investors’ perceptions of economic conditions. Our analysis focuses on the 2013 revision in the National Income and Product Accounts that changed the accounting treatment of intellectual property products (IPP) from expensing to capitalizing. Using stock returns around industry-level GDP announcements, we find that investors incorporate IPP’s contribution to GDP growth into their valuations only after IPP capitalization. We also find that investors adjust their valuation of research and development data from the National Science Foundation after IPP capitalization, despite the data being publicly available throughout our sample period. Our findings suggest that national accounting methods influence how investors interpret and react to macroeconomic information.

Keywords: Intellectual Property Products, Intangibles, Research and Development, Capitalization, Investor Response, GDP

Suggested Citation:

Bell, Mallory and Nallareddy, Suresh and Ogneva, Maria, Capital Market Consequences of National Accounting (March 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
A model of growth through creative destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G T Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
Account. Rev , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
G Angeletos , A Pavan
Transparency of information and coordination in economies with investment complementarities
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 98 Posted: 2004
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis , M Sammon
What Triggers Stock Market Jumps? Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
759
RANK
702,914
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies