Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Sensitivity, Environmental Disclosure, and Equity Financing

62 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025 Last revised: 24 Sep 2025

Xiangding Hou

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Quentin Moreau

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Date Written: June 17, 2025

Abstract

Using a sample covering the RUSSELL 3000 constituents, we show that environmental disclosure quality is lower for firms with high stock price sensitivity to climate news. Our findings indicate that the negative association between climate sensitivity and environmental disclosure quality is stronger when firms face higher levels of stakeholder scrutiny or when their managers are risk-averse. We further show that high climate sensitivity firms issue less equity and face a heightened cost of equity when they have a higher environmental disclosure quality. These results align with the theoretical predictions of Bond and Zeng (2022) regarding the disclosure choices of firms’ managers when stakeholders’ interpretation of ESG information is ex-ante uncertain. Overall, our findings highlight the usefulness of mandatory environmental reporting to ensure the quality of environmental disclosure, particularly for firms with high degrees of climate sensitivity.

Keywords: Environmental disclosure, Climate sensitivity, Climate news, Cost of equity, Equity financing

Funder Statement

The authors acknowledge financial support from Hong Kong's Research Grants Council (project no. T31-603/21-N).

Suggested Citation:

Hou, Xiangding and Moreau, Quentin, Climate Sensitivity, Environmental Disclosure, and Equity Financing (June 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J M Addoum , A Kumar
Political sentiment and predictable returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 3471 - 3518 Posted: 2016
F Antoniou , M D Delis , S Ongena , C Tsoumas
Pollution permits and financing costs
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking Posted: 2024
D Ardia , K Bluteau , K Boudt , K Inghelbrecht
Climate change concerns and the performance of green vs. brown stocks
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 12 , p. 7607 - 7632 Posted: 2023
M J Arteaga-Garavito , R Colacito , M M M Croce , B Yang
Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
RANK
545,411
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies