Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rent-Seeking through Bad Mouthing: Employees' Strategic Workplace Disclosure before Stock Option Grants

57 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2025 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Yongkang Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Junqi Liu

Xiamen University, Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: March 29, 2025

Abstract

Analyzing employee-generated workplace reviews posted on Glassdoor.com, we find that rank-and-file employees make value-depressing reviews about their employers prior to receiving stock option grants, implying a likely strategic disclosure practice by employees. Such strategic reviews are highly transient and only detectable for eligible option recipients and non-executives. They are also more prominent for employees who are more likely to receive stock options and incur lower costs of posting negative reviews, as well as for larger employee stock option awards. Further analyses reveal that review narratives are more negative and cover more sensitive topics. Additionally, we show that the strategic reviews are unlikely driven by employers responding to low employee morale and do not rely on executives' guidance. Collectively, we provide novel evidence that employees manipulate the strike price of forthcoming stock options through strategic workplace reviews, which may undermine the role that option compensation plays in motivating rank-and-file employees to internalize the firm's best interests.

Keywords: Rank-and-file employees, Employee stock options, Workplace reviews, Employee disclosure, Glassdoor

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Li, Yongkang and Liu, Junqi and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Rent-Seeking through Bad Mouthing: Employees' Strategic Workplace Disclosure before Stock Option Grants (March 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
K Abdulsalam , D M Christensen , S D Graffin , J Li
Do boards reward and punish CEOs based on employee satisfaction ratings? Organization Science , volume 36 , p. 881 - 902 Posted: 2025
D Aboody
Market valuation of employee stock options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
S Aldatmaz , P Ouimet , E D Van Wesep
The option to quit: The effect of employee stock options on turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 151 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
420,501
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies