Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How does Managers' Willingness to Disclose Affect Analysts' Earning Forecasts-A Measurement by LLMs

63 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Qingwen Liang

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Matias Carrasco Kind

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of managers’ non-responses (NORs) during quarterly earnings calls on analyst forecast behavior by developing a novel measure of NORs using two mainstream large language models: Chat-GPT4 and Llama 3.3. We adopt a three-step prompting approach–namely identification, classification, and evaluation–to extract and classify NORs from the transcripts of S&P 500 firms’ quarterly earnings conference calls. After validations, we document significantly positive relations between NORs and analyst forecast errors, dispersion, and uncertainty. The result is robust with Llama3.3 identified NORs. We hypothesis that the positive relations between NORs and analyst forecast features are driven by greater information asymmetry and uncertainty. Consistent with the assumption, the cross-sectional analysis shows that the positive relationship between NORs and analysts’ forecast features is concentrated in the set of sample firms operating across multiple industries, with higher institutional ownership and R&D expenditures, and those holding earnings calls during the COVID period. In further analysis, we find that earnings calls with more NORs are followed by a greater post-earnings announcement drift, indicating that NORs increase information asymmetry by raising information processing costs. Additionally, we find that NORs are associated with more return volatility, higher trading volume and wider bid-ask spreads, suggesting that NORs aggravate information uncertainty. Overall, our study demonstrates managers’ non-responses during earnings calls can exacerbate the information environment faced by analysts.

Keywords: Large Language Model, Chat-GPT4, Analyst Forecast, Llama3.3, Non-disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Qingwen and Carrasco Kind, Matias, How does Managers' Willingness to Disclose Affect Analysts' Earning Forecasts-A Measurement by LLMs (March 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5199752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5199752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic complexity in disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
D M Armstrong
Measuring tax enforcement with generative AI Posted: 2023
J J Bai , N M Boyson , Y Cao , M Liu , C Wan
Executives vs. chatbots: Unmasking insights through human-AI differences in earnings conference Q&A
Northeastern U. D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper , issue 4480056 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
RANK
572,087
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies