Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leasing vs. Debt: The Impact of IFRS 16 on Firm Financing Decisions and Managerial Incentives

48 Pages Posted: 2 May 2025

Thomas Hartmann-Wendels

University of Cologne - Department of Banking

Mario Hendriock

University of Cologne - Department of Finance; University of Cologne - Centre for Financial Research (CFR)

Hendrik Kussmaul

University of Cologne - Department of Finance; University of Cologne, Germany

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how firms choose between debt and leasing to finance productive assets, particularly following the introduction of IFRS 16. By treating leases as equivalent to debt on financial statements, IFRS 16 provides a quasi-natural experiment to explore this decision-making process. Our findings reveal that firms increased their leasing activities post-IFRS 16, driven by managerial incentives tied to EBIT and EBITDA, while simultaneously reducing direct capital expenditures and credit quotas. Notably, firms with higher pre-existing leasing volumes and stronger EBITDA-based incentives exhibit the most pronounced shift. Contrary to concerns about managerial opportunism, our results suggest that this reallocation enhances investment efficiency and aligns managerial incentives with long-term firm value.

Keywords: lease capitalization, debt financing vs. leasing, managerial incentives, capital budgeting, agency theory, recognition versus disclosure, investment efficiency, economic consequences, off-balance sheet financing, IFRS16

JEL Classification: D83, G32, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hartmann-Wendels, Thomas and Hendriock, Mario and Kussmaul, Hendrik, Leasing vs. Debt: The Impact of IFRS 16 on Firm Financing Decisions and Managerial Incentives (March 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5199116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5199116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Mike Adams , Philip Hardwick
Determinants of the leasing decision in United Kingdom listed companies
Applied Financial Economics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 487 - 494 Posted: 1998
James Ang , Pamela P Peterson
The Leasing Puzzle
The Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1055 - 1065 Posted: 1984
Mary E Barth , R Wayne , Mark H Landsman , Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Chenchuramaiah T Bathala , K Tarun , Mukherjee
A Survey of Leasing in Small Firms
Journal of Small Business Finance , volume 4 , issue 2-3 , p. 113 - 127 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,202
RANK
243,598
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies