Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial Audit Fee Discounting, Financial Reporting Quality, and Investor Protection: International Evidence

59 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2025

Hua-Wei Huang

National Cheng Kung University

Brand fong

National Sun Yat-Sen University

David Manry

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Previous research has noted that greater investor protection increases audit litigation risk and audit fees. We find that firms with positive discretionary accruals in jurisdictions with stronger investor protection tend to receive audit fee discounts when changing auditors, in contrast to firms with negative discretionary accruals. Our evidence further suggests that auditors granting fee discounts appear to recover the discounts subsequently through increased fees, although the fee recoveries are diminished in countries with stronger investor protection. We also find that firms with positive discretionary accruals tend to subsequently report earnings that meet or beat analyst expectations; moreover, this tendency is greater for client firms receiving initial fee discounts. Taken together, our results suggest that positive discretionary accruals may signal positive future economic prospects and reduced audit risk, motivating the granting of initial fee discounts. Our results are robust to re-estimation of the discretionary accruals models with the Chen et al. (2018) single-step process.

Keywords: Initial-year audit fee discounting, lowballing, auditor litigation risk, discretionary accruals, auditor changes, investor protection.

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Hua-Wei and fong, Brand and Manry, David, Initial Audit Fee Discounting, Financial Reporting Quality, and Investor Protection: International Evidence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5200984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5200984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Earnings Management, Litigation Risk, and Asymmetric Audit Fee Responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
K Ahmadabad , M Noehi
Studying the Relationship Between Discretionary Accruals and Some of the Performance Indicators of Companies Listed in Tehran Stock Exchange
European Journal of Management and Marketing Studies , volume 3 , p. 93 - 109 Posted: 2018
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
389
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies