Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Disclosure Affect Employee Careers? Evidence from Mandatory Patent Disclosure and Inventor Mobility

Posted: 2 Apr 2025 Last revised: 1 Apr 2025

Yabo Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of mandatory patent disclosure on inventor human capital reallocation. Leveraging the quasi-random assignment of patent examiners, I analyze the effects of a patent legal reform mandating the disclosure of patent applications within 18 months of filing, rather than at grant. Results show that affected inventors are significantly more likely to switch employers post-reform. Additional analyses suggest that this mobility stems from expanded public information and reduced uncertainty about inventor quality among outside employers. The effects are more pronounced for inventors who are more likely to reveal new information, have scarcer existing information, or are of higher quality and unmatched with their incumbent employers. Suggestive evidence indicates that this increased mobility leads to improved inventor-firm matching and higher patenting output. The results underscore an important, yet overlooked, role of patent disclosure in reallocating inventor talent.

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Yabo,
Can Disclosure Affect Employee Careers? Evidence from Mandatory Patent Disclosure and Inventor Mobility
(March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5200414
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies