Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Asymmetry and Blockchain Adoption Along Supply Chains: The Strategic Investment Behavior of Customer

Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Chaofan Li

Wuhan University of Technology

Pin Zhou

Huazhong Agricultural University

Date Written: April 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the role of information asymmetry on customers’ blockchain adoption along supply chains. The analytical results show that the customers are less willingness to initiate blockchain when there exists information asymmetry between customers and suppliers. The presence of information asymmetry incentivizes the customers to initiating private chain rather that alliance chain and untraceable chain. The heterogeneity analysis indicates that when customers are worried about the disclosure of innovation input information, the information asymmetry between customers and suppliers has a more significant inhibiting effect on customers’ blockchain initiation behavior. When the raw material risk faced by customers is high, the inhibitory effect of information asymmetry on customers to initiate blockchain investment is significantly alleviated. This shows that whether customers invest in blockchain depends on their concerns about information leakage and the level of transparency about the quality of product information.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chaofan and Zhou, Pin, Information Asymmetry and Blockchain Adoption Along Supply Chains: The Strategic Investment Behavior of Customer (April 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5201509
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies