Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Face-to-Face Board Meetings and Board Effectiveness in M&A Decisions

Posted: 5 May 2025

Shuning Jiang

Tsinghua University

Yanting (Crystal) Shi

HEC Paris

Kun Wang

Tsinghua University

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how board meeting formats, specifically face-to-face versus remote or hybrid, are associated with board decision outcomes in mergers and acquisitions (M&A). While prior research highlights the benefits of remote meetings, we provide new evidence on the underexplored role of face-to-face interaction in strategic board decisions. Drawing on a unique dataset of board meeting formats from Chinese A-share companies, we find that face-to-face board meetings are significantly associated with higher M&A completion rates and more positive market reactions at announcement. For completed deals, face-to-face meetings are correlated with stronger announcement returns and greater post-acquisition performance. By applying a Heckman two-step model, we address potential selection bias in meeting format and confirm the robustness of our results. Cross-sectional analyses further show that the observed associations are more pronounced in completed M&A transactions involving greater informational frictions due to geographically distant or unrelated targets. Overall, our findings underscore the importance of meeting format as a contextual factor in corporate governance, highlighting the value of face-to-face communication in complex strategic decision-making.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Effectiveness, Board Meeting Formats, Face-to-Face Meetings

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Shuning and Shi, Yanting and Wang, Kun, Face-to-Face Board Meetings and Board Effectiveness in M&A Decisions (March 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5201945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies