Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Do Female Leaders Influence Supply Chain Selection?— Evidence from China

Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Chaofan Li

Wuhan University of Technology

Pin Zhou

Huazhong Agricultural University

Date Written: April 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper empirically examines the impact of female leaders on supply chain selection. The result indicates that, with the proportion of female leaders increasing, suppliers (customers) are more inclined to choose customers (suppliers) whose market position are larger than their own. This implies that, female leaders are more likely to select high-quality suppliers (customers). Heterogeneity analysis reveals that, the female leaders have a significant impact on supply chain selection when the social trust in the region where the firm is located is lower, or when the firm implements more social responsibility. Finally, this paper also finds that the ability of female leaders to choose high-quality suppliers (customers) can mitigate the gender pay gap, provide more jobs, and increase the transaction with high-quality suppliers (customers).

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chaofan and Zhou, Pin,

Do Female Leaders Influence Supply Chain Selection?— Evidence from China

(April 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5201508
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies