Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Advertising and Financial Analyst Forecasts

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2025 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Heeick Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Seungwon Lee

Pennsylvania State University Harrisburg

Inho Suk

The State University of New York at Buffalo; Korea University Business School (KUBS)

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether product advertising provides value-relevant information that enables financial analysts to make better earnings and sales forecasts. Our analysis reveals that a firm's product advertising intensity is positively related to the informativeness and accuracy of analyst forecasts. A difference-indifferences test and an instrumental variable analysis identify the causal relationship. Additionally, the effect of advertising on analyst forecast quality is stronger when a firm has greater coverage from industry-expert analysts, exhibits more volatile operating performance, and holds newly registered trademarks. Overall, our evidence suggests that product advertising conveys valuable information that analysts can utilize to produce higher-quality forecasts for investors, highlighting the role of advertising in a firm's overall information environment.

Keywords: product advertising, financial analysts, information intermediary

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Heeick and Lee, Seungwon and Suk, Inho and Zhang, Hao, Product Advertising and Financial Analyst Forecasts (March 01, 2025). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5201318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5201318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
A M Abernethy , G R Franke
The information content of advertising: A meta-analysis
Journal of Advertising , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1996
D A Ackerberg
Empirically distinguishing informative and prestige effects of advertising
Rand Journal of Economics , p. 316 - 333 Posted: 2001
D A Ackerberg
Advertising, learning, and consumer choice in experience good markets: an empirical examination
International Economic Review , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 1007 - 1040 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
541,838
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies