Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Does Financial Analysts’ Optimism Information Provision About Customers’ Sales Forecast Induce Suppliers’ Over-Investment?

Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Chaofan Li

Wuhan University of Technology

Pin Zhou

Huazhong Agricultural University

Date Written: April 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper aims to examine how the sales information provided by the financial analysts affects suppliers’ investment behavior. That is, this paper tests whether the optimistic forward-looking of demand information about customers provided by the financial analysts affects the suppliers’ investment efficiency. Based on the sample of Chinese listed firms from 2010 to 2018, this paper uses OLS model to test the hypothesis. This paper finds that the long-term horizon optimism of analysts about the customers’ sales leads to over-investment of suppliers, rather than the short-term horizon optimism. The heterogeneity analysis finds that the phenomenon is more significant when suppliers’ negotiation power is weak, or the financial analysts have the ability to acquire the private information. This study contributes to the previous literature by providing novel evidence on how the sales information of customers provided by the analysts affects the suppliers’ investment efficiency.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chaofan and Zhou, Pin,

Does Financial Analysts’ Optimism Information Provision About Customers’ Sales Forecast Induce Suppliers’ Over-Investment?

(April 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5201507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies