Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management of Management Proposals

62 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2025

Goeun Choi

Loyola Marymount University - College of Business Administration

Ilona Babenko

Arizona State University

Rik Sen

University of Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Using shareholder voting records, we find evidence of systematic managerial influence on the outcomes of closely contested management proposals. This behavior results in an estimated 47% increase in narrowly passed management proposals and is more pronounced in firms with low institutional ownership, few analysts, low voluntary disclosure, and low board independence, suggesting that weaker monitoring facilitates such behavior. Managerial influence on voting outcomes is also more pronounced for binding proposals and for proposals with a negative ISS recommendation. We identify new mechanisms by which managers influence the voting outcomes, such as meeting adjournment and selective campaigning. Finally, the market reacts positively to the narrow failure of management proposals and negatively to their passage. Combined with the theoretical model, these results imply that managerial influence on the voting process is value-destroying.

Keywords: Corporate Voting, Management Proposals, Shareholder Proposals, Manipulation

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Goeun and Babenko, Ilona and Sen, Rik, Management of Management Proposals (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5202310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5202310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
Reena Aggarwal , Sandeep Dahiya , Nagpurnanand R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
Reena Aggarwal , Pedro Saffi , Jason Sturgess
The role of institutional investors in voting: Evidence from the securities lending market
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , p. 2309 - 2346 Posted: 2015
Christopher Armstrong , John Kepler , Delphine Samuels , Daniel Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasiexperiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
RANK
63,990
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies