Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Saving the Public Good: The Role of Accounting and Procurement Data in Unveiling Mafia Infiltrations in Italian Municipalities

26 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Francesco Ambrosini

University of Padova, Department of Economics and Management

Ilaria Campagna

Universita di Trento

Federico Longhin

Rozes s.r.l; Università di Padova

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the use of accounting and procurement data to detect mafia infiltration in municipal governance through machine learning techniques. Leveraging financial statements and procurement records from 7,284 Italian municipalities (2016-2022), we develop classification models to predict council dismissals due to mafia ties. Using univariate variable selection and gradient boosting algorithms, the models identify financial anomalies and procurement irregularities as key indicators of organized crime. The results demonstrate robust performance, with AUC scores of 0.97 (accounting data) and 0.96 (procurement data), and a True Positive Rate of 0.85. Our findings reveal the complementary insights offered by accounting and procurement data, highlighting their potential for early detection of criminal infiltration. This study contributes to public sector accounting and governance literature, emphasizing the value of data-driven tools in combating organized crime and promoting transparency in municipal operations.

Keywords: Public Sector Accounting, Organized Crime, Machine Learning

Suggested Citation:

Ambrosini, Francesco and Campagna, Ilaria and Longhin, Federico and Parbonetti, Antonio, Saving the Public Good: The Role of Accounting and Procurement Data in Unveiling Mafia Infiltrations in Italian Municipalities (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5203951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5203951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
E Ash , S Galletta , T Giommoni
A machine learning approach to analyzing corruption in local public finances
Center for Law & Economics Working Paper Series , volume 6 Posted: 2020
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms using a machine learning approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
F Barboza , H Kimura , E Altman
Machine learning models and bankruptcy prediction
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 83 , p. 405 - 417 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
530
RANK
841,369
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies