Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of Working and Non-Working Women's Purchasing Behavior in Mangalore, with a Special Emphasis on Urban and Rural Women

12 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Sowmya B

Srinivas University

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

The contemporary marketing concept has been greatly influenced by working women. The goal of this study is to discover and contrast the shifting views and shopping habits of urban Indian women who are either employed or unemployed. To put it another way, it suggests that women's many obligations have an effect on their own or their relatives and friends' spending habits career women, according the results of the poll, were price-, quality-, and brand-conscious and significantly influenced by others when making purchases. the research is based on primary data. A survey, on the other hand, was carried out using a structured questionnaire and the direct interview approach. Certain markers, assessed on a categorical scale, were used to assess the purchasing habits of employed and non-working women.

Keywords: Women, purchase behavior, consumer perception, urbanity, involvement

Suggested Citation:

B, Sowmya, Review of Working and Non-Working Women's Purchasing Behavior in Mangalore, with a Special Emphasis on Urban and Rural Women (March 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5203278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5203278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
N Sundaram
The perception of women consumers on buying behaviour with reference to vellore district of tamilnadu
india , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 31 - 40 Posted: 2013
S Fernandes
Working women and non -working women buying behavior/ : influence of social reference groups on the purchase of productsa review introduction/ : indian journal of commerce and management studies , p. 91 - 98 Posted: 2014
C Mafini
Consumer decision making styles/ : an empirical investigation from south africa
International business&economics research journal , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 679 - 688 Posted: 2014
J Koch
Online shopping motives during the covid-19 pandemic-lessons from the crisis
Sustainability (switzerland) , volume 12 , issue 24 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
149
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies