Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misinformation Regulations: Early Evidence on Corporate Social Media Strategy




Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Apr 2025 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Richard M. Crowley

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Yun Lou

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Samuel T. Tan

Singapore Management University

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 11, 2025

Abstract

Against the backdrop of an increasing threat of misinformation on social media, several countries have enacted regulations to curb the spread of misinformation. This study examines how corporate social media strategy responds to misinformation regulations. Using a large cross-country dataset of corporate tweets and a stacked regression analysis, we show that misinformation regulations lead to less corporate social media disclosure. This result suggests that, by deterring misinformation, these regulations reduce firms’ need to use social media to counteract its adverse effects. Additional analyses show that the effect strengthens among countries with higher social media usage and those with stronger investor protection but weakens for firms with stronger information environments. Finally, we provide direct evidence that firms post fewer tweets refuting misinformation about themselves following the enactment of these regulations.

Keywords: social media, disclosure, Twitter

Suggested Citation:

Crowley, Richard M. and Lou, Yun and Tan, Samuel T. and Zhang, Liandong, Misinformation Regulations: Early Evidence on Corporate Social Media Strategy (June 11, 2025).

Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5204884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5204884
 Not Available for Download
59 References
Afp
China directs users to approved VPNs as firewall tightens Posted: 2018
K R Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor has it: Sensationalism in financial media
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
H Allcott , M Gentzkow
Social media and fake news in the 2016 election
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , p. 211 - 235 Posted: 2017
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies