Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Institutional Investors Facilitate Reporting Comparability? Evidence from Common Institutional Ownership in the U.S.

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2025

Xuanbo LI

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Yun Lou

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kaitang Zhou

Soochow University - Business School

Date Written: March 18, 2025

Abstract

We examine how common institutional investors (CIIs) facilitate the financial reporting comparability (FRC) of U.S. firms. Common ownership increases FRC of firms that are directly owned by CIIs (via a direct effect) and has positive spillover effects on other firms in the same industry. We find spillover effects in two types of firms: (1) those that are commonly owned by different institutional investors but are connected through common firms, and (2) those that do not have any common ownership. These results suggest that the effect of common ownership goes beyond commonly owned firms and extends to non-commonly owned firms. Furthermore, we find two mechanisms for the direct and spillover effects of common ownership on reporting comparability: firms' hiring of common auditors and their adoption of similar accounting practices. Overall, we provide comprehensive evidence on how common institutional ownership benefits the comparability of financial reporting in the U.S.

Keywords: Common ownership, Cross ownership, Institutional investors, Blockholders, Financial reporting comparability, Spillover effects

Suggested Citation:

LI, Xuanbo and Lou, Yun and Wang, Rencheng and Zhou, Kaitang, How Do Institutional Investors Facilitate Reporting Comparability? Evidence from Common Institutional Ownership in the U.S. (March 18, 2025). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5204876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5204876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the predictions of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
J Azar , M C Schmalz , I Tecu
Anticompetitive effects of common ownership
Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1513 - 1565 Posted: 2018
M Barth
Global financial reporting: Implications for US academics
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 5 , p. 1159 - 1179 Posted: 2008
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
634
RANK
718,946
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies