Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Far Away? The Effect of Remote Management on Corporate Disclosure

52 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 11 May 2025

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Matthew Ma

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting

Yue Ma

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management

Jing Pan

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine how remote work arrangements of CEOs affect corporate voluntary disclosure. Using machine learning techniques, we identify remote CEOs based on 10-K filings and proxy statements. We find that firms with remote CEOs issue management earnings forecasts less frequently, and these forecasts tend to be less accurate. Also, the stock market reacts less strongly to forecasts made by remote CEOs compared to those made by onsite CEOs. Exploiting increases in direct flights from CEOs' primary residences to corporate headquarters as an exogenous improvement in travel ease, we find that shorter flight times significantly enhance both the frequency and accuracy of management forecasts. The effects of remote CEOs are more pronounced in firms with greater operational complexity, weaker teamwork cultures, or CEOs with a more internal focus. Furthermore, remote CEOs earn lower abnormal returns from insider trading, suggesting they are less informed. Overall, our findings indicate that remote work arrangements reduce both the quantity and quality of management forecasts due to diminished access to information in the absence of face-to-face interactions.

Keywords: Remote Work Arrangement, CEO, Voluntary Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Li, Meng and Ma, Matthew and Ma, Yue and Pan, Jing, Too Far Away? The Effect of Remote Management on Corporate Disclosure (March 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5204101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5204101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
B O Baik , D B Farber , S A Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
243
RANK
864,457
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies