Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncovering Turkish Audit Firms’ Transparency Report Textual Attributes Through Computer Based Approaches and Linking Them to Audit Quality

42 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2025

Sibel Dinç Aydemir

Gebze Technical University

Yusuf Sinan Akgul

Gebze Technical University

Barış Özcan

Gebze Technical University

Mine Aksu

Sabanci University

Abstract

This paper assesses the textual attributes of transparency reports (TRs) prepared by audit firms (AFs) in Türkiye between 2013-2020. To achieve this goal, we utilize a range of computer-based techniques and expertise, including natural language processing, named entity recognition, business text processing, web scraping, data mining, and bot building. The findings reveal that TRs exhibit boilerplate tendencies, lacking full transparency, are characterized as medium-to-hard documents with a generally positive tone and diverse EoBP at the firm level, pointing to significant barriers in achieving sustainable reporting practices.This paper also investigates AF-based determinants of TR textual attributes. Regression model results indicate the impact of some AF characteristics (e.g., license duration, number of partners, the Big 4, female ratio, non-audit services) on most textual attributes.Finally, we explore the role of textual features, alongside AF and audit partner (AP) attributes, in influencing audit quality. To address potential endogeneity concerns, the study adopts an instrumental variables probit model. The analysis reveals that the readability of TRs by Fog index significantly influences audit quality. Factors such as AF tenure, AP busyness, CF’s sales ratio, and loss contribute to audit quality, aligning with prior research.

Keywords: Audit quality, Transparency Reports, Readability, natural language processing, Named Entity Recognition, Document Similarity

Suggested Citation:

Dinç Aydemir, Sibel and Akgul, Yusuf Sinan and Özcan, Barış and Aksu, Mine, Uncovering Turkish Audit Firms’ Transparency Report Textual Attributes Through Computer Based Approaches and Linking Them to Audit Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5205754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5205754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
On statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/ 660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC
EC of The European Parliament and of The Council , p. 88 - 107 Posted: 2006
R Alcalde , C A Armino , S Garcia
Analysis of the economic sustainability of the supply chain sector by applying the Altman Z-score predictor
Sustainability , volume 14 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2022
S Al-Manaseer , S D Al-Oshaibat
Validity of Altman Z-score model to predict financial failure: Evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 181 - 189 Posted: 2018
A Al-Thuneibat , Ibrahim Al Tawfiq , R Issa , R A Baker
Do audit tenure and firm size contribute to audit quality? Empirical evidence from Jordan
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 317 - 334 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
358
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies