Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Transparency and Risk Sharing in Commodity Futures Markets

65 Pages Posted: 5 May 2025

Shuyan Wang

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, Carlson School of Management

Date Written: April 06, 2025

Abstract

A central function of commodity futures markets is to help firms hedge commodity price fluctuations. This study examines how transparency about commodity fundamentals affects these markets' ability to facilitate hedging. While information transparency can reduce adverse selection and encourage traders to absorb risk, it can also accelerate the realization of risk and hinder the transfer of risk via the markets. Analyzing variation in transparency across 27 commodity markets over 20 years, I find that greater transparency increases the cost of hedging using futures and reduces futures trading intensity, indicating a decline in the markets' risk-sharing capacity. This effect is consistently observed across two mandatory transparency shocks and is exacerbated by economic frictions, including market incompleteness and extended disclosure horizons. Overall, this study highlights how transparency shapes the efficient reallocation of commodity price risk across the real and financial sectors.

Keywords: commodity futures markets, risk sharing, hedging, transparency

JEL Classification: D80, G32, M41, Q02

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Shuyan, Information Transparency and Risk Sharing in Commodity Futures Markets (April 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5207466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
V V Acharya , L A Lochstoer , T Ramadorai
Limits to arbitrage and hedging: Evidence from commodity markets
J. Financ. Econ , volume 109 , p. 441 - 465 Posted: 2013
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism Posted: 1970
M Alles , R Lundholm
On the optimality of public signals in the presence of private information
Account. Rev , volume 68 , p. 93 - 112 Posted: 1993
M Badia , M Duro , B N Jorgensen , G Ormazabal , H B Christensen
The informational effects of tightening oil and gas disclosure rules
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 37 , p. 1720 - 1755 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
RANK
576,053
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies