Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More or Less: The Impact of Suppliers' Locations on the Recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic

European Management Review, Accept

39 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2025 Last revised: 28 Jun 2025

Chaofan Li

Wuhan University of Technology

Anyi Yan

Nanyang Technological University (NTU)

Hong Hong

Wuhan University of Technology

Pin Zhou

Huazhong Agricultural University

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

This paper tests how quickly firms recover from the shock caused by the COVID-19 pandemic under different sourcing strategies. Our findings indicates that firms with geographically concentrated suppliers experience slower recovery compared to those with geographically dispersed suppliers following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Further analysis also reveals that firms with geographically concentrated suppliers recover more rapidly if their suppliers are less affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, if they maintain long-term supplier relationships, or if they hold higher levels of cash reserves.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, Supply Chain Disruption Risk, Geographically Concentrated Supplier, Disruption Recovery

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chaofan and Yan, Anyi and Hong, Hong and Zhou, Pin, More or Less: The Impact of Suppliers' Locations on the Recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic (April 07, 2025). European Management Review, Accept, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5207675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Ş Ağ Ca , J R Birge , Z A Wang , J Wu
The impact of COVID-19 on supply chain credit risk , volume 32 , p. 4088 - 4113 Posted: 2023
S Ahmad , R G Schroeder
The impact of electronic data interchange on delivery performance , volume 10 , p. 16 - 30 Posted: 2001
S W Anderson , M H Christ , H C Dekker , K L Sedatole
The use of management controls to mitigate risk in strategic alliances: Field and survey evidence
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2014
N Argyres , R Gil , G Zanarone
Does Supply Concentration Encourage Cooperation? Evidence From Airlines
Management Science Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies