Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Health Insurance and Firm Leverage

39 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2025

Jian Zhang

School of Business and Management, Shanghai International Studies University

Jun Qiao

Shanghai International Studies University

Wenruo Wu

Shanghai International Studies University

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the impact of public health insurance on firm leverage. To establish causality, we exploit a policy-induced exogenous shock in the implementation of Chinese national public health insurance program starting in 2007, which is Urban Resident Basic Medical Insurance (URBMI). Using a difference-indifferences approach, we find that Chinese listed firms in pilot cities implementing the URBMI program maintain higher leverage ratios than those in nonpilot cities. Employee lock-in and risk tolerance are the plausible mechanisms through which public health insurance affects corporate leverage. This study sheds light on the effects of public health insurance on firm financing decisions.

Keywords: public health insurance, firm leverage, employee lock-in, employee risk tolerance

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Jian and Qiao, Jun and Wu, Wenruo and Kong, Dongmin, Public Health Insurance and Firm Leverage (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5208117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5208117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Agell
On the Benefits From Rigid Labour Markets: Norms, Market Failures, and Social Insurance
The Economic Journal , volume 109 , issue 453 , p. 143 - 164 Posted: 1999
Ashwini K Agrawal , David A Matsa
Labor Unemployment Risk and Corporate Financing Decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, ffnance, and economic growth in China
J. Financ. Econ , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
K Bae , J Kang , J Wang
Employee treatment and firm leverage: a test of the stakeholder theory of capital structure
J. Financ. Econ , volume 100 , p. 130 - 153 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies