Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organized Labor and Strategic Disclosure through Online Job Postings

49 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2025 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Lin Cheng

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Meiling Zhao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: April 07, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether and how unionized employers use online job postings as a strategic disclosure tool to mitigate the bargaining power of labor unions. Utilizing difference-in-differences analyses, we find that unionized employers strategically reduce the level of online job postings during labor negotiations. Cross-sectional tests suggest that these firms' reduction in the level of job postings during labor negotiations is more pronounced when firms face higher product market competition, when they have greater labor intensity, and when they exhibit higher growth. Further, such strategic disclosure behavior concentrates in the three quarters leading up to the effective dates of collective bargaining agreements. Corroborating evidence suggests that unionized employers also provide fewer specific job postings during labor negotiations. Overall, our study provides evidence that firms strategically communicate with incumbent employees through online job postings.

Keywords: Organized Labor, Strategic Disclosure, Job Postings, Proprietary Costs

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Cheng, Lin and Weng, Liwei and Zhao, Meiling, Organized Labor and Strategic Disclosure through Online Job Postings (April 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5210291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5210291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A K Agrawal
Corporate Governance Objectives of Labor Union Shareholders: Evidence from Proxy Voting
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 Posted: 2012
D Aobdia , L Cheng
Unionization, Product Market Competition, and Strategic Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 331 - 357 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , L Cheng , Q Tan , X Wu
EDGAR Implementation, Unionization, and Strategic Disclosure
The Accounting Review Posted: 2025
P Bastos , U Kreickemeier , P W Wright
Open-shop unions and product market competition
Canadian Journal of Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 640 - 662 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,192
RANK
249,893
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies