Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Transition to Normativity: An Analysis of Stakeholders' Perspectives on Sustainability Reporting Standard-Setting

46 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2025 Last revised: 23 Sep 2025

Karina Bauernhofer

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: April 10, 2025

Abstract

Normativity, how actors come to see norms as binding, is crucial to sustainability reporting standard-setting. Studies analyzing companies’ compliance with norms and exploring actors’ views on norms support this reasoning. Yet few studies have focused on the legitimacy of norm entrepreneurs and the critical role of stakeholders in this process. In 2021, the IFRS Foundation published a draft standard for global sustainability reporting. Prior to its publication, the IFRS Foundation initiated a consultation process on the demand from stakeholders for such a new standard. In total, 572 comment letters were received from a broad range of stakeholder groups across 46 countries. We examined these comment letters through thematic analysis. We find that stakeholders emphasize the IFRS Foundation’s well-established institutional platform, which partly compensates for the fact that the IFRS Foundation is not yet taken for granted as the natural authority in sustainability reporting. We find diverse international perspectives on the rationale, purpose, materiality, and audience of a global sustainability reporting norm across stakeholder groups, which challenges the formulation of a norm that is well designed for its intended purpose. We argue that the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards are better positioned to achieve normativity in specific regions, particularly those where sustainability reporting legislation is less advanced or where there is a strong focus on financial materiality. The results add to the theory of normativity. They show how consultation processes contribute to norm emergence and the transition to a norm cascade and thus highlight the importance of legitimacy and stakeholders’ perspectives.

Keywords: standard-setting process, normativity, comment letters, sustainability reporting, IFRS Foundation, International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)

JEL Classification: M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Bauernhofer, Karina and Hummel, Katrin, Exploring the Transition to Normativity: An Analysis of Stakeholders' Perspectives on Sustainability Reporting Standard-Setting (April 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5212339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5212339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Abhayawansa
Swimming against the tide: back to single materiality for sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1361 - 1385 Posted: 2022
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation' of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 , issue 3 Posted: 2022
C A Adams , F Mueller
Academics and policymakers at odds: the case of the IFRS Foundation Trustees' consultation paper on sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1310 - 1333 Posted: 2022
I Ali , P T Fukofuka , A K Narayan
Critical reflections on sustainability reporting standard setting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 776 - 791 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
354
RANK
778,745
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies