Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Population Aging and Labor Cost Management—A Machine-learning Approach

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Ruirui Fang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Nan Hu

Singapore Management University

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Haonan Wang

Xi’an University of Architecture and Technology

Date Written: April 01, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of population aging on firms’ labor cost management through the lens of cost stickiness, where costs increase more rapidly than they decrease relative to changes in activity levels. We hypothesize that population aging increases labor cost stickiness, as firms increasingly commit to sustaining an aging workforce and meeting societal expectations regarding responsible employment practices. Applying textual analysis and machine learning methods to firms’ annual reports, we develop a time-varying measure of a firm’s exposure to population aging, enabling a more nuanced examination of how firms adapt strategically to demographic shifts. We find that population aging is significantly and positively related to labor cost stickiness. This relationship is more pronounced for firms in labor-intensive industries, those with strong corporate social responsibility performance, state-owned enterprises, and firms in highly marketized regions. Our results remain robust after addressing endogeneity concerns and ruling out alternative explanations. Overall, this study documents the impact of demographic shifts on firms’ labor cost structures and highlights the critical role of social responsibility in shaping labor cost dynamics.

Keywords: population aging, labor cost management, cost stickiness, machine learning, firm-level measure, textual analysis

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Ruirui and Hu, Nan and Huang, Rong and Wang, Haonan, Population Aging and Labor Cost Management—A Machine-learning Approach (April 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
S Aaronson , T Cajner , B Fallick , F Galbis-Reig , C L Smith , W Wascher
Labor force participation: Recent developments and future prospects Posted: 2014
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Demographics and automation
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2022
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
R Balakrishnan , M J Petersen , N S Soderstrom
Does capacity utilization affect the "Stickiness" of cost?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 300 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies