Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commentary: Revisiting Earnings Management

37 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Morton Pincus

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

In this commentary, I re-visit the issue of earnings management (EM) more than 35 years after Schipper's (1989) influential commentary on the subject. Important legislative, regulatory, and other events have occurred since then (accounting scandals, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and the regulation of auditing), including the literature's recognition that managers can use real activities to manage earnings in addition to, or in place of accounting-based EM techniques. I discuss EM basics, accounting pronouncements constraining EM, and some key research findings in the area. The evidence suggests accounting-based EM declined post-SOX and substitution between accounting-based and real EM weakened. The research also suggests that the role of external auditors in being aware of heightened EM settings and exhibiting extra scrutiny in such settings is also an important factor in the reduction of accounting-based EM. Additionally, the research supports Ball's (2013) claim that EM occurs but rampant EM is a myth. Keywords: accounting-based earnings management, real earnings management, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, disclosure of auditor materiality thresholds JEL Codes: M41, M42, M48 I attest that I have no financial conflicts or any other conflicts of interest. I gratefully acknowledge the comments and suggestions of Ray Ball, Eli Bartov, Dan Collins, Nate Franke, Terry Shevlin, Patricia Wellmeyer, and Steve Zeff. Remaining errors are my responsibility.

Keywords: Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Pincus, Morton P.K., Commentary: Revisiting Earnings Management (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Ball ; Bamber , Christensen , Gaver
Put somewhat differently, there is self-interest, and then there is unbridled self-interest. 28 Discussions with some practitioners indicate auditors, at least at larger audit firms, make use of software tools to identify red flags in client journal entries and account balances, and impose significant financial penalties on audit partners for audit failures the PCAOB detects in its inspections. 29 There is a very large number of replications and re-examinations of
moral obligation to inform parties affected by it as well as those responsible for acting on it? Posted: 1968
A Akhigbe , A Martin
Valuation Impact of Sarbanes-Oxley: Evidence from Disclosures and Governance within the Financial; services Industry
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 989 - 1006 Posted: 2006
W Baber , S H Kang , & Y Li
Modeling Discretionary Accrual Reversal and the Balance Sheet as an Earnings Management Constraint , volume 86 , p. 1189 - 1212 Posted: 2011
R Ball
Accounting Informs Investors and Earnings Management is Rife: Two Questionable Myths. Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
499,012
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies