Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Regimes and ESG Disclosure Strategies in Emerging Markets

Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Zhuolin Li

City University of New York (CUNY)

Date Written: November 27, 2024

Abstract

As global regulators increasingly mandate non-financial disclosures, understanding the design and effectiveness of such policies is essential. This paper examines the impact of Hong Kong’s 2012 voluntary and 2015 mandatory ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) disclosure policies, using the setting of Hong Kong–Mainland China dual-listed firms. I find that the 2015 “comply or explain” mandate significantly increased the disclosure of quantitative carbon and pollutant emissions, while the 2012 voluntary policy had no measurable effect. Nonetheless, a considerable number of firms continue to withhold quantitative environmental information. Firms appear reluctant to disclose carbon emissions, possibly due to concerns over litigation risks, suggesting that even soft mandates may deter disclosure when legal consequences are anticipated. The analysis also shows that firms with environmental management systems are more likely to disclose quantitative emissions data, while the adoption of GRI standards, Big Four auditors, third-party assurance, or analyst coverage does not significantly influence disclosure post-mandate. Notably, affected firms exhibit risk-averse communication strategies by reducing monetary disclosures, such as the reported value of environmental protection investments. 

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhuolin, Regulatory Regimes and ESG Disclosure Strategies in Emerging Markets (November 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5216650
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies