Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Constraint of real earnings management with mediating role of cash holdings: Evidence from US and China

https://econjournals.sgh.waw.pl/JMFS/submissions

18 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Dr. Israfil Bangash

International Islamic University Islamabad

Dr Hameeda Akhtar

International Islamic University, Islamabad

Date Written: April 14, 2025

Abstract

Research spanning US and Chinese firms examines real earnings management from 2006 to 2020. In the US, the analysis focuses on auditor-client distance, corporate governance, IFRS adoption, and tax strategies. Auditor-client distance positively influences real earnings management, suggesting tendencies for managerial manipulation. Strong governance, IFRS compliance, and reduced tax strategies are linked to decreased real earnings management. Cash holdings serve as mediators, highlighting the roles of governance and audit quality. Concurrently, in China's emerging economy, the study analyzes real earnings management factors among firms on the Shanghai Stock Market. Similar to the US findings, employee tenure is not significant, while cash holdings mediate, indicating positive performance and aligning with signaling theory. These studies enhance the understanding of real earnings management, emphasizing the influence of governance, frameworks, and signaling mechanisms on transparent financial reporting across both advanced and emerging economies from distinct perspectives.

Keywords: Auditor Client Distance, Employee Tenure, Corporate Governance index, IFRS, Geographical location, corporate tax avoidance.

JEL Classification: M41, G34, H26, F65

Suggested Citation:

Bangash, Dr. Israfil and Akhtar, Dr Hameeda,

Constraint of real earnings management with mediating role of cash holdings: Evidence from US and China

(April 14, 2025). https://econjournals.sgh.waw.pl/JMFS/submissions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5216644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5216644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
References
N Abdelwahed
The impact of corporate governance on real earnings management
Journal of Accounting , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 45 - 67 Posted: 2018
A S Abousmak , Y M Shahwan
Earnings management, corporate governance, and cost of capital
Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 112 - 135 Posted: 2018
L J Abbott
CEO compensation, auditor-client distance, and earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 201 - 218 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
331
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies