Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Puzzle of Left-handedness: Evidence from Corporate Innovation

Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, 2025.

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper

57 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Long Chen

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

June Woo Park

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

xu xiaofang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

Left-handers represent a notable portion of the global population, yet their characteristics remain somewhat enigmatic. One key question is whether they are inherently more creative than their non-left-handed counterparts. Our study addresses this question by examining how firm innovation varies with the handedness of their CEOs. Using a novel sample of left-handed CEOs, we find that they tend to have greater innovation success than their counterparts. Using forced turnover as an exogenous shock, we conduct a CEO handedness change analysis and find that firms transitioning from a right-handed to a left-handed CEO tend to have more patents and citations, but not vice versa. We also identify a possible mechanism for this effect: left-handed CEOs tend to hire more immigrant inventors or serve as inventors themselves, which likely enhances the firm's innovation output. Overall, our study highlights CEO handedness as an observable personal characteristic that could serve as a predictor of a firm' creativity.

Keywords: Handedness, Left-Handedness, Creativity, Personal Trait, Patent

JEL Classification: G32, J24, O31

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Long and Park, June Woo and Tsang, Albert and xiaofang, xu, The Puzzle of Left-handedness: Evidence from Corporate Innovation (February 04, 2025). Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, 2025., Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5217637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5217637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
M Abbasi , B Shahbazzadegan , M Samadzadeh
Survey of relationship between creativity and Lateral dominance in guidance school students. Procedia -Social and Behavioural Sciences , volume 28 , p. 293 - 299 Posted: 2011
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: an inverted-U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
R Alvarez , R Robertson
Exposure to foreign markets and plant-level innovation: Evidence from Chile and Mexico
The Journal of International Trade and Economic Development , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 87 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
594
RANK
713,531
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies