Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence of the effects of ESG (environmental, social, and governance) and rental availability on business value (analysis of businesses in the banking sector of the London Stock Exchange's FTSE100 from 2020 to 2024)

14 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Adel Necib

University of Sfax

Anis Jarboui

University of Sfax

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

Through the accumulation of long-term funds focused on the productive sector, the capital market is an effective tool for promoting national development. Businesses that list on a stock exchange show their worth through the course of exchanged actions, which attracts investors to put money in to get the best return. This study focusses on how company performance affects stockholder returns, as measured by financial ratios like ROA, PER, QAI, DER, NPM, EPS, and EVA for telecom companies listed on the UK stock exchange between 2020 and 2024. Additionally, implementing ESG (Environment, Social, and Governance)-based investments is crucial to increasing the company's value over time. ESG encourages business sustainability and transparency in line with the Sustainable development goals. The findings show that the company's performance, as measured by several financial ratios, has a varied relationship with stock market returns. This emphasises the significance of an integrated strategy that balances the company's financial performance and sustainability in order to attract investors and strengthen the company's competitiveness on the capital market.

Keywords: FTSE100, Capital Markets, Corporate Performance, ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance)

Suggested Citation:

Necib, Adel and Jarboui, Anis, Evidence of the effects of ESG (environmental, social, and governance) and rental availability on business value (analysis of businesses in the banking sector of the London Stock Exchange's FTSE100 from 2020 to 2024) (April 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5217774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5217774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Arcangeli , C Bove , C Mezzanotte , B Camisa , L Falcone , F Manfredi
M Casucci
CAR T cell manufacturing from naive/stem memory T lymphocytes enhances antitumor responses while curtailing cytokine release syndrome
The Journal of clinical investigation , issue 12 Posted: 2022
K Bayuaji , C F Ukhriyawati , R E Putra
Analysis of The Impact of Environmental, Social, & Governance (ESG) Disclosure and Profitability on Firm Value (Study on Banking Sector Companies Listed on The IDX From 2017-2021)
Eduvest-Journal of Universal Studies , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 2907 - 2920 Posted: 2025
A Buallay
Between cost and value: Investigating the effects of sustainability reporting on a firm's performance
Journal of applied accounting research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 481 - 496 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
397
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies