Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and the Dual Paradoxes: Examining the Interplay of Efficiency, Resource Consumption, and Labor Dynamics

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.10503

27 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Mfon Akpan

Northeastern State University - College of Business & Technology

Adeyemi Adebayo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

Artificial Intelligence's (AI) rapid development and growth not only transformed industries but also fired up important debates about its impacts on employment, resource allocation, and the ethics involved in decision-making. It serves to understand how changes within an industry will be able to influence society with that change. Advancing AI technologies will create a dual paradox of efficiency, greater resource consumption, and displacement of traditional labor. In this context, we explore the impact of AI on energy consumption, human labor roles, and hybrid roles widespread human labor replacement. We used mixed methods involving qualitative and quantitative analyses of data identified from various sources. Findings suggest that AI increases energy consumption and has impacted human labor roles to a minimal extent, considering that its applicability is limited to some tasks that require human judgment. In this context, the findings suggest that only 10% of labor roles across major sectors have been impacted by AI.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, AI, Jevons Paradox, Moravec's Paradox, Workforce

Suggested Citation:

Akpan, Mfon and Adebayo, Adeyemi, Artificial Intelligence and the Dual Paradoxes: Examining the Interplay of Efficiency, Resource Consumption, and Labor Dynamics (April 01, 2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.10503, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5219403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5219403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Essa Al Abdulla , M Hebsi , Ali Al-Shami , S
The effects of future foresight competency, AI technology competency, and learning orientation on innovation culture and airport security performance Posted: 2022
G K Agbanyo , C Ofori , G J Prah , T Chin
Exploring the energy-economyenvironment paradox through Yin-Yang harmony cognition
Heliyon , volume 9 , issue 9 Posted: 2023
Aiprm
AI in the Workplace Statistics Posted: 2024
M Akpan
Attention is all you need: An analysis of the valuation of artificial intelligence tokens
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 109 - 115 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
169
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies