Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manager Characteristics and the Informativeness of Banks' Loan Loss Provisioning

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 188

forthcoming in: Review of Accounting Studies

61 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2025 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Nicolas Rudolf

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Date Written: December 18, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the role of individual managers in banks' financial reporting. We exploit the connectedness between different managers and find that individual bank managers explain approximately 19 percent of banks' loan loss provisions. This observation is consistent with the substantial reporting discretion that individual bank managers use in the estimation of loan loss provisions, and that is increasingly subject to financial stability concerns by prudential supervisors. Our results suggest that these concerns are valid as individual management discretion is associated with a higher level of discretionary loan loss provisions and proxies for opportunistic accounting behavior, especially the reduction in the timeliness of these provisions and the lesser degree to which the allowance for credit losses maps into future charge-offs. These findings are relevant for the design of regulatory measures aimed at limiting the managerial influence on accounting choices in the banking industry and can inform debates on the desirability of discretion within the reporting process of banks.

Keywords: Bank Governance, Top Management Team, Loan Loss Provisions, Timeliness, Upper Echelons Theory, AKM Method, Manager Characteristics

Funder Statement

Jannis Bischof and Nicolas Rudolf gratefully acknowledge funding from the German Research Foundation (DFG) under the SFB/TRR 266 program (“Accounting for Transparency”, Project ID: 403041268). Nicolas Rudolf gratefully acknowledges support from the Swiss National Science Foundation (Project No. 220038).

JEL Classification: M41, M14, M48, M52, G20

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Rudolf, Nicolas, Manager Characteristics and the Informativeness of Banks' Loan Loss Provisioning (December 18, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 188, forthcoming in: Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5221971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5221971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High Wage Workers and High Wage Firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
J M Abowd , R H Creecy , F Kramarz
Computing person and firm effects using linked longitudinal employer-employee data. Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics Technical Papers 2002-06 Posted: 2002
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
RANK
702,914
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies