Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Accounting Flexibility: Firms' Opportunistic Response to Government Aid Policies in Times of Crisis

Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Marco Maria Mattei

University of Bologna - Department of Management; University of Bologna - School of Economics, Management, and Statistics

Matteo Merlo

University of Bologna

Eleonora Monaco

University of Bologna

Date Written: February 14, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates firms' responses to beneficial accounting policy changes implemented during crises. In 2020, the Italian government introduced a depreciation suspension policy to mitigate the possible negative financial effects of COVID-19. Using this unique empirical setting, we investigate, for a large sample of private firms, whether affected firms behaved opportunistically by exploiting newly offered flexibility in accounting changes. Additionally, we explore whether corporate governance restrains the opportunistic use of accounting flexibility. Focusing on the 2017-2022 period, we find that during the crisis, opportunistic firms-those with lower financial reporting quality-took advantage of this newly offered accounting flexibility more than less opportunistic firms. Interestingly, we find that this holds true irrespective of the crisis's negative effect on firm performance. The cross-sectional analysis shows that strong corporate governance mechanisms, typically effective in reducing agency problems in stable periods, failed to reduce firms' opportunistic accounting choices during the crisis. Our findings remain robust across alternative specifications and endogeneity tests. Overall, our study provides new insights into the role of accounting flexibility during crises and highlights possible inadvertent effects from strong government policies, and the inadequacy of strong corporate governance mechanisms in limiting managerial discretion and firms' opportunistic behaviour.

Keywords: COVID-19, Accounting Flexibility, Opportunistic Behaviour, Crisis, Government Policy, Depreciation Policy

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Mattei, Marco Maria and Merlo, Matteo and Monaco, Eleonora, The Dark Side of Accounting Flexibility: Firms' Opportunistic Response to Government Aid Policies in Times of Crisis (February 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5222548
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies