Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vanishing Voices: The Effect of U.S. Local Newspaper Closures on Information Asymmetry and Corporate Cash Holdings

76 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Iyad Almamlouk

Swansea University

Hafiz Hoque

Swansea University

Date Written: February 15, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of local American newspaper closures on corporate cash holdings through the lens of information asymmetry. Using difference-indifferences analysis with hand-collected data on 44 staggered closures from 1986 to 2021 as exogenous shocks, we find that the absence of local media increases information asymmetry between managers and investors, prompting firms to increase cash holdings by an average of a quarter. We focus on high-visibility firms, like those in the S&P 500, and regions becoming news deserts. Despite the rise of social media, it has not compensated for traditional journalism. By controlling for local economic conditions and using instrumental variables, we address endogeneity and validate our findings through placebo tests, Propensity Score Matching, and dynamic effects. Firms with higher bid-ask spreads face greater agency costs and respond by increasing cash holdings. However, analyst coverage and strategic short-term borrowing partially mitigate these effects. Financially constrained, non-dividend-paying, low-investment, and lessleveraged firms significantly increase cash reserves post-closure. The study also reveals increased cash flow sensitivity and a declining marginal value of cash post-closures. This research underscores the importance of sustaining local media for corporate transparency and effective financial management.

Keywords: Local Newspaper Closures, News Desert, Information Asymmetry, Agency Conflicts, Corporate Cash Holdings

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Almamlouk, Iyad and Hoque, Hafiz, Vanishing Voices: The Effect of U.S. Local Newspaper Closures on Information Asymmetry and Corporate Cash Holdings (February 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5223056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5223056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
202 References
References
A Abadie
Semiparametric Difference-in-Differences Estimators
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
A Abadie , A Diamond , A J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's Tobacco control program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
P M Abernathy
News Deserts and Ghost Newspapers: Will local news survive?
Newspaper Research Journal , volume 41 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
202 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies