Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constituency statutes and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from major customer identities

55 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Jackie Zeyang Ju

University of Kentucky

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 12, 2025

Abstract

Corporate constituency statutes are legislation that allows persons with fiduciary duties to consider the interests of non-owner stakeholders (e.g., suppliers, employees, creditors, and communities) in business decision making. We examine whether the adoption of these statutes affects the voluntary disclosure of information desired by non-owner stakeholders. The information item of our interest is a company's disclosure of major customer identities, because this information is typically desired by non-owner stakeholders but its disclosure could incur proprietary costs to shareholders. Ex ante, the relation is unclear because the statutes are permissive and the effects of the statutes have been debated. Exploiting the staggered adoptions of constituency statutes across states, we find that a state's adoption results in a significant increase in the disclosure of major customer identities by firms incorporated in that state. The increase is more pronounced for firms that rely more upon suppliers, employees, or public debtholders and for firms headquartered in communities with stronger social networks and norms. Our evidence suggests that a serendipitous legal nudge toward non-owner stakeholders results in increased corporate disclosure of information desired by these stakeholders.

Keywords: constituency statute, stakeholder, corporate social responsibility, CSR, ESG, voluntary disclosure, major customer. Data Availability: Data are available from the public sources identified in the text. JEL Classification: M2, M4, and G3

Declaration of Interest

None.

Ethics Approval

Not applicable.

Funder Statement

None.

JEL Classification: M2, M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Ju, Jackie Zeyang and Tucker, Jennifer and Xie, Hong, Constituency statutes and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from major customer identities (April 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5223870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5223870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Temporary layoff at Lakeside Plastics due to GM strike
A123 cuts jobs at battery plant touted by White House
Spirit AeroSystems asks lenders for relief after deeper Boeing 737 production cut
Fitch affirms Primary Products' ratings at 'BB'; Outlook Stable
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
459,150
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies