Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Intellectual Capital Reporting in the Nigeria

25 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: April 20, 2025

Abstract

Despite the growing recognition of intellectual capital (IC) as a strategic asset in value creation, its disclosure among firms in emerging markets remains insufficient and inconsistent. This study investigates the determinants of intellectual capital reporting (ICR) among companies listed on the Nigerian Capital Market, addressing a critical gap in understanding the drivers of IC transparency in a developing economy context. This study empirically examines how firm-specific characteristics-namely, firm size, leverage, board gender diversity, audit quality, and firm ageinfluence the level of ICR. The study covers ten years from 2014 to 2023 and utilizes a quantitative content analysis of annual reports from 150 firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange. The intellectual capital disclosures were measured using a modified IC disclosure index based on the three major components: human capital, structural capital, and capital employed. The data were analyzed using panel data regression models, specifically the random effects model (REM), to identify significant predictors of ICR. Findings reveal that firm size, board gender diversity, and audit quality exhibit statistically significant effect. The study also finds that firm leverage and firm age are not significant with ICR, suggesting a reluctance among dominant shareholders to disclose strategic intangible assets. The research is limited by its focus on listed firms and reliance on annual report disclosures, which may not fully capture all forms of IC communication. Nevertheless, the findings provide practical implications for regulators, investors, and corporate managers seeking to enhance IC transparency and reporting quality. Regulatory bodies may consider developing IC disclosure guidelines to promote uniformity and comparability in reporting practices. This study contributes to the literature by providing empirical evidence on the firm-level determinants of IC disclosure in a sub-Saharan African context, offering novel insights into corporate reporting behavior in an under-researched market.

Keywords: firm size, leverage, board gender diversity, audit quality, firm age, intellectual capital reporting

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

No clash

Funder Statement

Self

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege, Determinants of Intellectual Capital Reporting in the Nigeria (April 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5224030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5224030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
RANK
735,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies