Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Firm-Level Revenue Composition and Audit Quality—Evidence from Europe

55 Pages Posted: 1 May 2025

Sven Hörner

University of Bayreuth

Lena Riedl

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: April 14, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the relation between audit firm revenue composition and audit quality by exploiting the unique European setting in which audit firms must disclose a detailed breakdown of revenue in their transparency reports. We find that audit firm-level revenues from non-audit services (i.e., consulting) are negatively associated with audit quality. Moreover, the transparency report information enables us to distinguish explicitly between the proportion of non-audit services provided to audit clients and those provided to other entities. The results indicate that the provision of non-audit services to non-audit clients impairs audit quality. In addition, we examine whether a focus of the audit division on public-interest entities (PIEs) is associated with audit quality and find only weak evidence. Our findings contribute to the ongoing debate on the business model of audit firms, including whether a shift toward commercialism impairs audit quality.

Keywords: audit firm culture, audit quality, audit firm revenues

JEL Classification: G30, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hörner, Sven and Riedl, Lena, Audit Firm-Level Revenue Composition and Audit Quality—Evidence from Europe (April 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5225857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5225857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
662
RANK
360,957
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies