Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

A Study of Big Bath Practices in the Egyptian Capital Market: An Emphasis on CEO Turnover and Origin

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, 2024[10.1108/JFRA-10-2023-0637]

20 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Engy Elhawary

The British University in Egypt - Faculty of Business Administration, Economics, and Political Science

Rasha Elbolok

Suiz Canal University

Dina Hassouna

British University in Egypt

Date Written: April 18, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This study aims to investigate how major big bath accounting practices and CEO turnover in Egypt relate to one another, as well as the first to use the CEO's origin as a moderating factor. Design/methodology/approach-This study uses 10-year longitudinal data from 2012 to 2021 and 290 firm-year observations from Egypt's listed nonfinancial firms that witnessed CEO turnover to identify the significant big bath accounting practices in Egyptian businesses after the Egyptian revolution and the COVID-19 pandemic. Using fixed and random effect models, the authors investigate the impact of CEO turnover on company earnings during the first year of a newly appointed CEO as an indicator of big bath practices after controlling CEO gender, experience, firm size, leverage, return on assets, return on equity and industry. The hypotheses were investigated using static panel data. Findings-The results show the presence of big bath practices in the Egyptian market. Furthermore, big bath accounting practices are positively correlated with CEO turnover. Moreover, the results indicate that big bath accounting practices are only endured when external CEOs are employed, rather than internal ones. Research limitations/implications-The sample size and availability of data are the main research limitations. In addition, this study only examined CEO turnover and CEO origin as moderators in big bath accounting. Thus, future research may consider other CEO characteristics and political factors associated with big bath practices. Practical implications-The findings from this study offer valuable insights to investors and regulators for effective decision-making and governance practices within the Egyptian capital market, while also contributing to a more informed approach to emerging markets on a global scale. Originality/value-The findings contribute to the big-bath and CEO turnover and origin literature by showing a lower ceiling for earnings manipulation and using Egypt as a case study due to its unique institutional environment.

Keywords: CEO Turnover, Earnings Management, CEO Expertise

Suggested Citation:

Elhawary, Engy and Elbolok, Rasha and Hassouna, Dina,

A Study of Big Bath Practices in the Egyptian Capital Market: An Emphasis on CEO Turnover and Origin

(April 18, 2024). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, 2024[10.1108/JFRA-10-2023-0637], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5225865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
184
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies