Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate change, innovation efficiency, and shareholder wealth: Insights from the Paris Agreement

56 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Viput Ongsakul

NIDA Business School, National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA)

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Sangmook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: April 21, 2025

Abstract

We examine the impact of innovation efficiency on shareholder value in the context of climate change, using the novel research quotient (RQ) metric. The adoption of the Paris Agreement provides a unique setting to assess the effect of R&D productivity on stock market reactions. Our findings reveal that lower innovation efficiency, as measured by RQ, positively impacts cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) around the Paris Agreement's adoption. This suggests that firms starting from a lower baseline of innovation efficiency have greater potential for improvement and stand to gain significantly more from the Paris Agreement's climate-related incentives and support. In particular, a decline in innovation efficiency by one standard deviation improves the stock market reactions by 8.7%-9.9%. Also, we find that firms with stronger governance and higher profitability can further leverage these benefits, enhancing the positive market reactions to the Paris Agreement.

Keywords: JEL Classification: G32, M14, Q54, O32 Innovation Efficiency, Research Quotient, Climate Change, Paris Agreement, Corporate Governance, Stock Market Reactions, R&D Investments

JEL Classification: M14, Q54, G32, O32

Suggested Citation:

Ongsakul, Viput and Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Lee, Sangmook, Climate change, innovation efficiency, and shareholder wealth: Insights from the Paris Agreement (April 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5225179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5225179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
P Aghion , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt , S Prantl
The effects of entry on incumbent innovation and productivity
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 32 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , A Dechezleprêtre , D Hémous , R Martin , J Van Reenen
Carbon Taxes, Path Dependency, and Directed Technical Change: Evidence from the Auto Industry
Journal of Political Economy , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2016
L Alessi , S Battiston , V Kvedaras
Over with carbon? Investors' reaction to the Paris Agreement and the US withdrawal
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 71 , issue 101232 Posted: 2024
Y Antoniuk , T Leirvik
Climate change events and stock market returns
Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
237
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies