Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decoding Pension Funds: Sustainability Indicators for Annual Report Analysis

19 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Leticia Martins Medeiros

Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) - Department of Economics and Accounting

Clea Beatriz Macagnan

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (Unisinos), Unisinos Business School; Visiting Professor

Rosane Seibert

Universidade Regional Integrada do Alto Uruguai e das Missões

Date Written: February 25, 2025

Abstract

Pension funds' growth highlights the need to emphasize fiduciary duty and investment sustainability, considering the current and future participants' interests (priority stakeholders) and systemic risk reduction (environmental, social, economic, and governance effects). Therefore, this study builds sustainability indicators based on the interests of pension fund stakeholders. The methodology comprised five stages: the first consisted of analyzing Annual Information Reports to create a preliminary list of indicators; the second involved examining specific legislation on pension fund disclosure and identifying mandatory information; the third involved submitting the updated list to experts; and the fourth involved submitting it to priority stakeholders for evaluation and validation. After its updates, the indicators list was evaluated using Principal Component Analysis. All these stages allowed for the triangulation of information and the creation of a final list containing 48 sustainability indicators for pension funds, with information requested by priority stakeholders. This allows regulators to adjust disclosure rules, including those required by stakeholders and good governance practices. It also allows pension funds to identify the indicators required by stakeholders, reducing information asymmetry. The adoption of the list of indicators would promote trust, legitimacy, and sustainability for pension funds.

Keywords: pension funds, information asymmetry, reports, information indicators, sustainability, legitimacy

Suggested Citation:

Medeiros, Leticia Martins and Macagnan, Clea Beatriz and Seibert, Rosane, Decoding Pension Funds: Sustainability Indicators for Annual Report Analysis (February 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5226532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5226532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies