Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Majority-of-the-Minority Voting Rule Doesn't Improve the Governance of Related Party Transactions?

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Jing Lin

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Jin Lu

Guilin University of Technology

Lei Lu

University of Manitoba

Mingshan Zhou

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Date Written: April 23, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of stock price performance before shareholder meetings on minority shareholders' voting behavior about related party transaction (RPT) proposals, and the governance implications of the majority-of-the-minority rule. We find that prior stock price performance significantly decreases the likelihood of minority shareholders voting against RPTs. Conversely, financial performance, cash dividends, and research and development (R&D) expenditures have no similar effect on dissenting votes. The analysis also reveals that companies often enhance stock prices before shareholder meetings through unexpected positive earnings announcements and earnings management. Following the approval of RPT proposals, firms tend to engage more extensive RPTs, accompanied by declines in financial performance and dividend payouts. Furthermore, the presence of informed trading before and after shareholder meetings does not significantly affect minority shareholders' voting behavior. The negative impact of stock price performance on dissenting votes is more pronounced in firms with fewer long-term investors, weaker shareholder power, and less analyst coverage. These findings suggest that minority shareholders may base on stock price rather than insider information when making voting decisions, thus enabling majority shareholders with tunnelling motives to secure favorable votes on RPTs and undermining the effectiveness of the voting system as a governance mechanism to prevent tunneling.

Keywords: Related party transactions, Minority shareholder voting, Stock price performance, Myopic behavior JEL Classifications: G32

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Jing and Lu, Jin and Lu, Lei and Zhou, Mingshan, Why Majority-of-the-Minority Voting Rule Doesn't Improve the Governance of Related Party Transactions? (April 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5226909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5226909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
A K Agrawal
Corporate Governance Objectives of Labor Union Shareholders: Evidence from Proxy Voting
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 226 Posted: 2012
J Atanassov , A J Mandell
Corporate governance and dividend policy: Evidence of tunneling from master limited partnerships
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 53 , p. 106 - 132 Posted: 2018
N Attig , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Do Multiple Large Shareholders Play a Corporate Governance Role? Evidence from East Asia
Journal of Financial Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 422 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies