Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Impact of GST on Hotel Industry

4 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2025

Santosh Tiwari

Laxmichand Golwala College

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

For growth and economic development of any country, it is very necessary to provide maximum opportunities for the growth and development of different industries in the country. According to KPMG, it now contributes 8.2 percent of the country's GDP. According to a ministry of Tourism data, Hotel industry also receives the largest FDI, which shows a 32% growth year on year. The hotel industry in India is expected to reach a value of INR 1,210.87 billion by the end of 2023, expanding at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13% during the 2018-2023 period, owning to the high arrival rate of foreign tourists and business delegates.

Keywords: GST, Multiplicity of Taxes, Hotel Industry

Suggested Citation:

Tiwari, Santosh, A Study on Impact of GST on Hotel Industry (November 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5227095 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5227095
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies