Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Tax Policy Uncertainty and Stock Return Volatility

1 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2025

KC Lin

Central Michigan University - College of Business Administration

Jennifer L. Brown

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Jared A. Moore

Western Washington University

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

We find that stock return volatility is higher during periods of high tax policy uncertainty (TPU), even after controlling for other sources of general macroeconomic uncertainty. Tax policy uncertainty contributes to both systematic and idiosyncratic volatility, but more strongly to the systematic component. Moreover, the effect of TPU on idiosyncratic volatility varies predictably according to firm-level attributes, specifically capital structure and tax complexity. Finally, we find that tax policy uncertainty is positively (negatively) associated with cost of equity capital, bid-ask spread, and illiquidity (autocorrelation of stock returns). Overall, our results suggest that uncertainty surrounding tax policy can impose real costs on investors in the forms of higher risk premia, information asymmetry, and cost of equity capital. 

Suggested Citation:

Lin, KC and Brown, Jennifer L. and Moore, Jared A.,

Tax Policy Uncertainty and Stock Return Volatility

(February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5228033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5228033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies