Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Discussion on the Global Trend of Climate-Risk Disclosures

22 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Jonathan Jona

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Date Written: April 16, 2025

Abstract

The global trend toward regulating climate-risk disclosures reflects both real trends (addressing climate change issues) and reporting trends (demands from investors and stakeholders for more information on these issues). At the 2024 American Accounting Association (AAA) annual meeting, the AAA's International Accounting Section hosted a panel discussion with academic and industry experts on the global trend toward regulation of climate-related disclosures. A panel of experts and the audience discussed some key topics related to climate-risk and sustainabilityrelated disclosures. These discussions underscore the need for global collaboration to align and enhance the consistency, comparability, and reliability of climate-risk disclosures.

Keywords: CSR, climate risk disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Anup and Jona, Jonathan, A Discussion on the Global Trend of Climate-Risk Disclosures (April 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5230854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5230854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Bange
Study on ESG reporting: Regulatory requirments pose major challenges for companies Posted: 2024-09-20
H Berkman , J Jona , J Lodge , J Shemesh
The value impact of climate and non-climate environmental shareholder proposals
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 89 Posted: 2024-12
H Berkman , J Jona , N S Soderstrom
Firm-specific climate risk and market valuation
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 112 Posted: 2024-06
A Carter
Corporate climate disclosure has passed a tipping point. Companies need to catch up Posted: 2024-08-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
830
RANK
355,741
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies