Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Definition of the Concept of a Transnational Tax Crime for Ensuring National Security and International Cooperation in the Eurasian Legal Space

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 5

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Erdos Ch. Murzagaliev

Independent

Abstract

Nowadays, modern international law has not developed the concept of countering transnational tax crimes. To combat such crimes, it is imperative to enhance international collaboration between law enforcement agencies and financial institutions. Developing and implementing a unified system for exchanging information on financial transactions and actively pursuing violators will make the system more efficient and transparent. Efficiently utilizing modern technologies and the analytical work done by the concerned authorities will significantly enhance the efficacy of the regulation and prosecution of transnational tax offences, thereby facilitating the prompt and precise identification of the offenders. According to the results of the study, the author proposes to classify transnational tax crimes as follows: (i) tax evasion; (ii) concealment and underestimation of the volume of the taxable base of exporters; (iii) concealment of income received by foreign legal entities and their representative offices; and (iv) other types of crime. To effectively combat this phenomenon in international law, it is necessary to develop an efficient mechanism and adopt a suitable international legal document, such as a convention, agreements, standards, and regulations governing its implementation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/5qmmz4

Keywords: criminal tax law, tax evasion, tax fraud

Suggested Citation:

Murzagaliev, Erdos Ch., Definition of the Concept of a Transnational Tax Crime for Ensuring National Security and International Cooperation in the Eurasian Legal Space. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/5qmmz4
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
84
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies