Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing and Mispricing of Other Comprehensive Income: Do Prominence and Predominance of Reporting Location Matter?

Posted: 19 May 2025

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Wu-Po (Paul) Liu

Independent

Mengyu Ma

Central Washington University

Ya-Wen Yang

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of reporting location prominence and predominance on the pricing and potential mispricing of other comprehensive income (OCI) by capital markets. A prominent reporting location is where information is easily noticeable and accessible to users, whereas a predominant reporting location is where most firms report OCI, making it familiar to users. Using data from non-financial S&P 500 companies between 2004 and 2019, we find that investors price OCI only when it is reported in a predominant location, such as the statement of change in shareholders' equity (SSE) under SFAS 130 and a separate statement of comprehensive income (SEPARATE) under ASU 2011-05. We find no evidence of mispricing when OCI is reported in a prominent location, such as a performance statement (DIS), across both accounting regimes. Notably, investors price OCI and avoid mispricing only when it is reported in a location that is both prominent and predominant, specifically in a SEPARATE under ASU 2011-05. We also find consistent results using a sample of S&P 500 financial services firms prior to the implementation of ASU 2016-01 in 2018, further supporting the generalizability of our findings. These findings reconcile prior mixed evidence by demonstrating that neither prominence nor predominance alone ensures accurate investor response. Our study highlights how reporting location and familiarity affect investor response and offer implications for standard setters considering the presentation of accounting information.

Keywords: Other Comprehensive Income, Reporting Location, Prominence, Predominance

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Steve and Liu, Wu-Po (Paul) and Ma, Mengyu and Yang, Ya-Wen, Pricing and Mispricing of Other Comprehensive Income: Do Prominence and Predominance of Reporting Location Matter? (April 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5234291
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies