Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Record-keeping in Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria: A Source of Enhanced Business Performance

15 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Adejoke Aderinto

Bowen University Iwo, Nigeria

Date Written: April 26, 2025

Abstract

The study examined the influence of accounting record-keeping on the business performance of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria. The specific objective was to determine the extent to which SMEs in Nigeria keep accounting records of their business activities; and to ascertain the extent to which the accounting records of SMEs in Nigeria improve their business performance. Survey research design was adopted in the study. The target population for this study comprises 670,447 SMEs operating across Nigeria. A sample size of 278 respondents was selected across the geopolitical zones of Nigeria. Structured questionnaire was used to collect primary data for the study. Reliability was assessed using Cronbach's Alpha to determine the internal consistency of the items under each variable. The responses to the research questions were analysed using frequency distribution. The first hypothesis was tested using the Chi-square test to determine whether the extent of accounting record-keeping among SMEs is significantly low

Keywords: Accounting record-keeping, business performance, small and medium enterprises

Suggested Citation:

Aderinto, Adejoke, Accounting Record-keeping in Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria: A Source of Enhanced Business Performance (April 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5234111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5234111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
U Abdullahi , Y Ardo , A Hassan , G Ibrahim
Assessment of financial and nonfinancial performance indicators used by small and medium construction firms in Nigeria
FUTY Journal of the Environment , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 58 Posted: 2021
O A Abisuga-Oyekunle , S K Patra , M Muchie
SMEs in sustainable development: Their role in poverty reduction and employment generation in sub-Saharan Africa
Technology, Innovation and Development , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 405 - 419 Posted: 2020
V Adela , S K Agyei , S Frimpong , D B Awisome , A Bossman , R O Abosompim , A M A Ahmed
Bookkeeping practices and SME performance: The intervening role of owners' accounting skills
Heliyon , issue 1 Posted: 2024
A I Akosile , O S Oladele
Impact of accounting records on business performance: A case study of registered SMEs in Osogbo, Osun State
Benin Journal of Accounting, Finance and Forensic Science Research , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 102 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies