Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EFFECT OF BOARD INDEPENDENCE AND SIZE ON FINANCIAL DISTRESS OF LISTED CONSUMER GOODS FIRMS IN NIGERIA

14 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Onipe Adabenege Yahaya

Nigerian Defence Academy

Kayode Opeyemi

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: April 30, 2025

Abstract

This study examined the effect of board independence and size on the financial distress of listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria for fifteen years (2009-2023). Published annual reports were used as secondary data from the sampled firms. The population consists of 13 consumer goods firms listed on the Nigerian Exchange as of 31 st December 2023, and the sample size was made up of 13 consumer goods firms having the required data. Atman's Zscore was used to measure FD. The study adopted the multiple regression technique in analyzing the data extracted. The study concluded that board size and board independence show significant effects on the financial distress of listed consumer goods firms in Nigeria. Based on these findings, this study recommends that the presence of independent directors on the board should be encouraged, as they will enhance monitoring mechanisms and reduce the propensity to likelihood of financial distress. Additionally, the board size is recommended to be sizable enough to have good management skills and different experiences to develop and perform the leading role and responsibilities to achieve effective governance.

Keywords: Board independence, Board Size, Financial distress likelihood

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

This work was well distributed among the authors

Funder Statement

Self

Suggested Citation:

Yahaya, Onipe Adabenege and Opeyemi, Kayode, EFFECT OF BOARD INDEPENDENCE AND SIZE ON FINANCIAL DISTRESS OF LISTED CONSUMER GOODS FIRMS IN NIGERIA (April 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5237057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5237057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S O Abdulmalik , A C Ahmad
Corporate governance and financial regulatory framework in Nigeria: Issues and challenges
Journal of Advanced Research in Business and Management Studies , volume 2 , p. 50 - 63 Posted: 2016
D U Adebimpe , O Peace
Corporate governance, company attributes and voluntary disclosures: A study of Nigerian listed companies
The international journal of business in society , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 276 Posted: 2011
S B Adeyemi , O Okpala , L Eyesan
Factors affecting audit quality in Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 20 , p. 198 - 209 Posted: 2012
H Affes , H Sardouk
Accounting conservatism and corporate performance: The moderating effect of the board of directors
Journal of Business and Financial Affairs , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
649,230
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies