Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Cybersecurity, Cyber Risks and Firm Value: International

The International Journal of Accounting

58 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Md Akhtaruzzaman

Australian Catholic University

Rashid Zaman

Edith Cowan University

Wajih Abbassi

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Date Written: April 10, 2025

Abstract

Research problem
This study delves into the critical question of how national cybersecurity measures influence the
financial valuation of firms in a world increasingly threatened by cyber risk. It specifically explores
whether stronger cybersecurity commitments at the country level enhance firm value, particularly in
environments facing heightened cyber threats.
Motivation or theoretical reasoning
The motivation for this research arises from escalating concerns over cybersecurity breaches,
increasingly seen as a significant threat to firms and economies worldwide. Drawing on both
institutional theory and legitimacy theory, the study argues that national cybersecurity environments
play a pivotal role in shaping investor perceptions and confidence. It is theorized that stronger
cybersecurity measures reduce perceived risks, bolster investor confidence and, consequently,
increase firm value.
Key hypotheses
This study empirically investigates two key hypotheses: (1) country-level cybersecurity arrangements
are positively related to firm value; and (2) the impact of cybersecurity arrangements on firm value
is more pronounced in countries with higher levels of cybersecurity risk.
Target population
The study examines firms from 60 countries using data from 2015–2020. The Global Cybersecurity
Index (GCSI) data are obtained from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), while firmlevel
information is sourced from multiple databases, including Refinitiv ESG and Worldscope.
Methodology adopted
To test these hypotheses, the study utilizes ordinary least squares (OLS) regression. To mitigate
endogeneity, it employs difference-in-differences (DiD) estimation, using quasi-natural experiments,
such as the 2018 enactment of the European Union (EU)’s General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) and the COVID-19 pandemic, as exogenous shocks. An instrumental variable analysis, using
secure Internet servers per million people, further strengthens the findings.
Analyses
Drawing on 45,930 firm-year observations across 60 countries, this study rigorously investigates the
causal effect of cybersecurity arrangements on firm value.
Findings
The results indicate that firms in countries with stronger cybersecurity arrangements enjoy higher
market valuations. This effect is more significant in countries facing elevated cyber risk. The study
shows the impact is amplified in countries with greater geopolitical stability and remains robust across
various threats, such as phishing and malware. These findings carry implications for policymakers,
investors and corporate leaders, suggesting that strong national cybersecurity frameworks not only
mitigate cyber risk but also enhance firm value. Policymakers are encouraged to strengthen
cybersecurity infrastructure to create a secure business environment, thereby boosting investor
confidence and firm value.

Keywords: Cybersecurity, Cyber Risk, Firm Value, COVID-19, Cross-Country

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Akhtaruzzaman, Md and Zaman, Rashid and Abbassi, Wajih, Global Cybersecurity, Cyber Risks and Firm Value: International (April 10, 2025). The International Journal of Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5237639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5237639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
451,432
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies