Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mending Fences: Do Target Firms Bolster Corporate Social Responsibility after Unsuccessful Takeovers?

56 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Haina Shi

Fudan University

zhenyu zhang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Gaoguang Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Accountancy & Law

Xindong (Kevin) ZHU

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

Prior studies show that after unsuccessful takeover attempts, target firms improve their financial performance and corporate governance to deter raiders; however, little is known about whether they also take steps to improve non-financial measures. Using a sample of U.S. firms, we find target firms improve their corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance by approximately 4% to 5% following unsuccessful takeover attempts and show that such strategies can reduce the odds of being a target in the future. Furthermore, we show these investments in CSR are excessive and add little to firm value, suggesting that following a failed takeover bid, managers invest in CSR to protect their positions rather than to maximize shareholder value. Consistent with the role of employees and the community in deterring takeovers, our analysis shows that target managers primarily improve CSR practices directed at these two stakeholder groups. We also find enhancements to CSR activities following unsuccessful takeover attempts are more pronounced when target managers are more concerned about job security and when alternative anti-takeover tactics, such as formal anti-takeover provisions and financing and investment policies, are absent. Taken together, our findings suggest that managers of target firms deliberately engage in CSR activities to deter unwanted takeover attempts after experiencing unsuccessful takeovers.

Keywords: Unsuccessful Takeovers, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility, Agency Problems JEL Codes: G34, M14 Data Availability: All data are obtained from public sources

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interest

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Shi, Haina and zhang, zhenyu and Zhou, Gaoguang and ZHU, Xindong (Kevin), Mending Fences: Do Target Firms Bolster Corporate Social Responsibility after Unsuccessful Takeovers? (May 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5238841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5238841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
229
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies