Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Landscape of Auditing in U.S. Capital Markets

39 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Thomas Bourveau

University of Oxford, Saïd Business School

Jonathan Fluharty-Jaidee

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

Juan Mao

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Min Ren

Public Company Oversight Board

Martin Schmalz

University of Oxford

Joshua T. White

Vanderbilt University - Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 18, 2025

Abstract

We document trends in landscape of public-company auditing over 2003 to 2023, focusing on the distribution of audits across auditor size groups, auditor switching patterns, and audit firm entry and exit. We find remarkable stability in the Big 4's proportion of total audit fees but substantial declines in their presence among Nasdaq and OTC issuers. Auditor switching rates decline over time among Big 4 and Mid 2 clients while remaining persistently high among clients of smaller audit firms, suggesting increased differentiation in auditor-client relationships. Although PCAOB registrations surge in the first half of our sample, largely due to the 2009 broker-dealer mandate, total registered firms decline sharply after 2010. Most deregistering firms were minimally involved in auditing public issuers, suggesting that their exit does not necessarily reduce auditor availability. Our results highlight the importance of understanding firm-level audit activity, rather than registration numbers alone, when evaluating regulatory impacts on public issuer audits.

Keywords: Audit market, PCAOB, Auditor switching, Audit regulation, Auditor competition, Audit fees, Sarbanes-Oxley Act JEL Classification: G28, K21, L44, M42

Declaration of Interest

We have no financial conflict of interest to disclose

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Fluharty-Jaidee, Jonathan and Mao, Juan and Ren, Min and Schmalz, Martin and White, Joshua T., The Landscape of Auditing in U.S. Capital Markets (April 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5238248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5238248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Acito , A Amel-Zadeh , J Anderson , W Anderson , D Aobdia , T Bourveau , F Brochet , H Chen , J Fluharty-Jaidee , M Schmalz , M Tang , S Wang , J White , W Zame
Market-based incentives for optimal audit quality Posted: 2024
G Benston
Required disclosure and the stock market: An evaluation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
American Economic Review , volume 63 , p. 132 - 155 Posted: 1973
T Bourveau , M Breuer , J Koenraadt , R Stoumbos
Public company auditing around the Securities Exchange Act: Historical lessons for ESG assurance
The Accounting Review Posted: 2025
M Causholli , M De Martinis , D Hay , R Knechel
Audit markets, fees and production: Towards an integrated view of empirical audit research
Letter to the PCAOB Re: Proposing Release: Firm and Engagement Metrics , volume 29 , p. 167 - 215 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
RANK
369,949
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies