Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers Transparently Disclose Earnings Announcement Revisions?

58 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Robert Hills

Pennsylvania State University

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Mikhail Sterin

Texas State University

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

Many firms issue an earnings announcement (EA) via Form 8-K before filing their 10-K or 10-Q. When managers identify a revision to earnings reported in the EA, they must exercise professional judgment in their decision to disclose the change because no explicit guidance exists. We find that 47% of EA revisions are transparently disclosed in an amended 8-K, while 53% are not. Firms are more likely to update their 8-K when revisions are large, reduce earnings, cause the firm to miss a benchmark, or affect core accounts, suggesting that managers analogize the restatement guidance to this situation. We also find fewer amended 8-K filings among firms that report a non-GAAP earnings metric, indicating that most revising firms do not reconcile their non-GAAP metric with the final earnings number-an apparent inconsistency with the intent of Regulation G. EA revisions have implications for capital market participants, auditors, and the effectiveness of internal controls. Finally, firms that have EA revisions are more likely to file future EAs concurrently with their 10-K or 10-Q.

Keywords: Earnings Announcement Revisions, Transparency, Non-GAAP, Materiality

Suggested Citation:

Hills, Robert and Kubic, Matthew and Sterin, Mikhail, Do Managers Transparently Disclose Earnings Announcement Revisions? (May 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5238794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5238794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
RANK
653,768
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies