Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
10-K Readability and Shareholder Proposals on Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance: An International Review, 2025

74 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Abhinav Anand

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Kozhikode

Xing Huan

EDHEC Business School

Jalaj Pathak

IIM Lucknow

Date Written: May 06, 2025

Abstract

Using the passage of the Plain Writing Act of 2010 as an exogenous source for an increase in 10-K readability within a difference-in-differences framework, we find that firms with poor 10-K readability prior to the Act experienced a decline in the likelihood of receiving corporate governance proposals. This effect is primarily concentrated in proposals sponsored by retail investors and is most pronounced in firms with entrenched management, those actively engaging in earnings management through discretionary accruals, and proposals related to executive compensation and disclosure. By providing evidence on the differential impact of 10-K readability on retail versus institutional investors, we shed light on the varying information processing capabilities and engagement strategies across investor types. Our findings also illuminate the interplay between disclosure readability, managerial entrenchment, and earnings management, offering insights into the mechanisms through which poor 10-K readability influences the initiation of shareholder proposals. Our findings underscore the effectiveness of the Plain Writing Act of 2010 in enhancing transparency and highlight the role of disclosure readability as a tool for shareholder engagement, particularly for retail investors. Further, we show that the Plain Writing Act achieved more than its original goal of promoting clear and transparent communication between the government and the public; it also achieved an unintended outcome by prompting firms to adopt clear writing norms.

Keywords: financial disclosure, readability, shareholder resolutions, shareholder proposals

Suggested Citation:

Anand, Abhinav and Huan, Xing and Pathak, Jalaj, 10-K Readability and Shareholder Proposals on Corporate Governance (May 06, 2025). Corporate Governance: An International Review, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5238010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5238010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
860
RANK
524,565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies