Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social capital, corporate governance, and earnings management: Cross-country evidence

59 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Ahmed Aboud

University of Portsmouth UK

Tarek AbdelFattah

University of Nottingham

Hesham Bassyouny

University of Southampton

Sonia Brandon

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Giota Papadimitri

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 03, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of social capital on earnings management and the moderating role of corporate governance in shaping that relationship. We explore how the interaction between social capital and other mechanisms, namely culture and formal institutions, affects earnings management, based on the concept that corporate governance can strengthen the impact of social capital on earnings management by reinforcing ethical norms and accountability. Using data from 14 countries, we present evidence that social capital has an effect on earnings management beyond the influence of cultural attributes. Moreover, the impact of social capital is particularly significant in firms with low corporate governance quality. Further analysis shows that the influence of social capital on earnings management is heightened in countries exhibiting low levels of individualism, power distance, and indulgence, and in countries with a code law system, lower ownership concentration, and higher disclosure quality. Our study contributes to the literature by demonstrating, using a crosscountry context, that social capital constrains earnings management practices. It also highlights the additional impact of social capital beyond cultural dimensions, emphasizing its distinct role as a normenforcing mechanism with sanctions, separate from attributes such as individualism or uncertainty avoidance. Furthermore, the study offers new insights into the interplay between social capital and corporate governance in shaping corporate financial practices.

Keywords: Social capital, Earnings management, Corporate governance, Institutional theory, Cross-country evidence JEL classifications: M41, D21, G41, A12 1. Introduction

Suggested Citation:

Aboud, Ahmed and AbdelFattah, Tarek and Bassyouny, Hesham and Brandon, Sonia and Papadimitri, Giota, Social capital, corporate governance, and earnings management: Cross-country evidence (March 03, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5238036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5238036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
T Abdelfattah , M Elfeky
Earnings management, corporate social responsibility and governance structure: further evidence from Egypt
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 17 , issue 1-2 , p. 173 - 201 Posted: 2021
A Aboud
Segmental reporting, accounting enforcement, and analyst forecast dispersion in the European Union
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 53 Posted: 2023
A Aboud , A Helfaya
Role of country-level characteristics in segment reporting: EU evidence
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 56 , issue 4 Posted: 2021
A Aboud , C Roberts
Managers' segment disclosure choices under IFRS , volume 8 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
523
RANK
735,901
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies