Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ICT Usage and Economic Growth of Nigeria

9 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Friday Ojeaburu

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; University of Port Harcourt

G.N Ogbonna

University of Port Harcourt - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between the usage of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and the economic growth of Nigeria. The data used for this study was obtained from the World Bank, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Statistical Bulletin, and other internet sources. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of the import and export of ICT on Nigeria's economic growth. The findings demonstrate that the use of ICT is mainly prevalent in cloud accounting and ICT facilities in the oil and gas industry and banking sector. At the same time, ICT imports and exports in Nigeria's entrepreneurship businesses are relatively insignificant. The study concludes that Nigerian entrepreneurs use inadequate ICT facilities mainly due to the need for more information technology knowledge, especially cloud accounting systems, which are relatively new and unfamiliar to most Nigerian entrepreneurs. Based on these findings and conclusions, this study recommends that the government should use relevant agencies to create greater ICT awareness and capacity building among Nigerian entrepreneurs, particularly the youth, by providing massive ICT practical training and retraining to acquaint and arm them with adequate and innovative knowledge and skills of what cloud accounting and other ICT facilities are all about, their benefits and challenges. Moreover, the agency should encourage entrepreneurs to use locally made ICT tools and facilities and improve their capacity to acquire and export them to boost foreign exchange earnings for more significant economic growth.

Keywords: ICT Usage, Cloud Accounting, Economic growth, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ojeaburu, Friday and Ogbonna, G.N, ICT Usage and Economic Growth of Nigeria (May 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5239748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5239748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies