Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Litigation Risk Among B3-Listed Companies and the Challenges to Fiscal Citizenship in Brazil

17 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Arquimedes de Jesus Moraes

Vila Velha University

Date Written: May 03, 2025

Abstract

This study seeks to understand whether there is a relationship between the way a company structures its governance and the way it deals with tax disputes. The research analyzes Brazilian companies listed on B3, with data from 2017 to 2023. The proposal is not limited to evaluating numbers, but tries to understand whether stronger governance practices are linked to less litigious choices. There is a central hypothesis here: companies with a greater commitment to transparency and internal organization tend to avoid the judicial route when facing tax conflicts. To test this idea, the study uses different statistical models, including quantile regression, which helps to observe behavior in different parts of the data distribution. The results suggest that, in fact, companies with more consistent governance litigate less. It is also clear that regulated sectors concentrate higher levels of disputes with the tax authorities, which indicates an influence of sector risk on this type of decision. Overall, the work contributes to the discussion on tax justice and tax citizenship, offering useful insights for those who formulate public policies or work in the management of companies seeking to reduce exposure to tax disputes.

Keywords: Capital markets, Corporate governance, Tax citizenship, Tax justice, Tax litigation

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

Not applicable.

Funder Statement

This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

Suggested Citation:

de Jesus Moraes, Arquimedes, Tax Litigation Risk Among B3-Listed Companies and the Challenges to Fiscal Citizenship in Brazil (May 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
W Ali , Muhammad Riaz Hussain Ansari , Basit Abdul , Memon
Corporate Governance and Firm Financial Performance: A Meta-Analysis Study
Journal of Accounting and Finance in Emerging Economies , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 917 - 940 Posted: 2020
K Amin , R Felix , K Hoang
The Spillover Effect of Dismissals on Audit Partners
Current Engagement Fees and Quality. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2025
E F Attia , S Yassen , A Chafai , A Qotb
The impact of board gender diversity on the accrual/real earnings management practice: Evidence from an emerging market
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
R M Bowen , S Dutta , S Tang , P Zhu
Does Corporate Governance Quality Influence Insider Trading around Private Meetings between Managers and Investors? Accounting Horizons , volume 37 , p. 27 - 57 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies