Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Statement Presentation and Information Asymmetry: International Evidence

50 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Ahmet C. Kurt

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 02, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates how income statement presentation format affects information processing by financial analysts and investors. While many jurisdictions around the world permit firms to classify expenses either by function or by nature, the capital market consequences of this presentation choice remain unclear. I predict that the nature-of-expenses format, which omits cost of sales, imposes greater information acquisition and processing costs on analysts. Consistent with this view, the results show that fewer analysts provide gross profit margin forecasts for firms using the nature-of-expenses format, and that these forecasts exhibit lower accuracy and greater dispersion compared to those for firms using the function-of-expenses format. In contrast, evidence also indicates that a nature-based breakdown of expenses is associated with lower information uncertainty among investors. Bid-ask spreads, idiosyncratic risk, and short interest are lower for firms that classify expenses by nature rather than by function. Collectively, these findings suggest that although the nature-of-expenses format may obscure cost of sales information, the more detailed breakdown of expenses under this approach helps investors more effectively process firm-specific information.

Keywords: Financial Statement Presentation, Income Statement, Expense Classification, Analyst Forecasts, Information Asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Kurt, Ahmet C., Income Statement Presentation and Information Asymmetry: International Evidence (May 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
RANK
730,194
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies