Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Opting Out from Public Markets

32 Pages Posted: 3 May 2025

Sureyya Burcu Avci

Sabanci University - School of Management

Abstract

This study analyzes how delisting companies' short-run and long-run stock returns are determined using a sample of Turkish companies delisted between 2010 and 2022. First, we separate delisting companies into voluntary and compulsorily delisting. The positive buy-and-hold returns of voluntarily delisted companies outweigh the negative returns of compulsorily delisted companies. As a result, delistings positively impact the overall financial market in the long term. We show that audit opinions or going-concern modifications do not affect short- and long-run returns. Long-run returns of delisting companies depend on firms’ internal liquidity and partially on firm size.

Keywords: Independent audit reports, delisted firms, audit opinions, going-concern modifications

Suggested Citation:

Avci, Sureyya Burcu, Effects of Opting Out from Public Markets. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5240853 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5240853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
E.-A M Algebaly , Y Ibrahim , A Ahmad-Zaluki , N
The determinants of compulsory delisting rate in the Egyptian IPO equity market
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 171 - 190 Posted: 2014
A A Al-Thuneibat , K Basheer Ahmad , N A Al-Fayoumi
The effect of qualified auditors' opinions on share prices: evidence from Jordan
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 101 Posted: 2008
E C Ameen , K Chan , D M Guffey
Information content of qualified audit opinions for over-the-counter firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 997 - 1011 Posted: 1994
C Andres , A Betzer , C Weir
Shareholder wealth gains through better corporate governance-The case of European LBO-transactions
Financial Markets and Portfolio Management , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 403 - 424 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
349
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies