Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Risk and Independent Director Behavior: Evidence from China

61 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Ning Hu

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Jing Ma

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Shilei Yu

Shanghai National Accounting Institute

Zhiyuan Zhang

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

In this paper, we examine how independent directors respond to changes in regulatory risk in China. Our findings indicate that, following the Kangmei case—which imposed the most severe penalties on independent directors in China—those serving in high-risk firms adopt more conservative behaviors, including resigning from high-risk firms, increasing diligence in their work, and urging firms to purchase directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. This effect is more pronounced in firms located in areas with stricter regulatory enforcement, in firms with weak external corporate governance, and among directors with stronger risk management awareness. Further, we identify the peaking order among different types of behavior and the mechanism through which regulatory risk influences director behavior. Finally, we find that the behavioral changes induced by increased regulatory risk lead to improvements in accounting information quality. Collectively, our study provides valuable insights for regulators, practicing independent directors, and academics interested in how regulatory risk affects independent directors’ behavior.

Keywords: Regulatory Risk, independent directors, Monitoring Behaviors, Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance, Accounting Information Quality

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Ning and Ma, Jing and Yu, Shilei and Zhang, Zhiyuan, Regulatory Risk and Independent Director Behavior: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay
Journal of Accoun ting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
S Basu , Y Liang
Director-liability-reduction laws and conditional cons ervatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 889 - 917 Posted: 2019
H Berkman , R A Cole , L J Fu
Political connections and minorityshareholder protection: Evidence from securities-market regulation in China
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 45 , issue 6 , p. 1391 - 1417 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies