Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does gender diversity in corporate boards and executive management teams influence carbon performance? Evidence from Europe

58 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Gifty Adjei-Mensah

University of Southampton

Hanh Nguyen

Southampton University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: April 23, 2023

Abstract

We examine how gender diversity in both corporate boards and executive management teams influence both procedure-oriented carbon management performance (PCMP) and real carbon emission reduction performance (RCRP) of European listed firms. Drawing on multiple theoretical perspectives, our empirical models employ firm fixed-effects estimators to analyse a large dataset, consisting of 5,327 firm-year observations, covering a period of fifteen years. Our findings are three-fold. First, our primary evidence suggests that gender diversity in both corporate boards and executive management teams has a statistically significant positive association with PCMP and RCRP. Second, we provide robust evidence on the link between female directors’ cognitive attributes and PCMP, as well as RCRP. Third, we find that board gender diversity reinforces the positive influence of gender-diverse executive management teams on PCMP and RCRP. Overall, our study results suggest that female directors and executives play complementary roles in influencing and shaping a company’s response to global climate risk. Our results are generally robust to controlling for governance mechanisms, alternative measures/estimations and endogeneities. Our findings have implications for policies relating to gender-responsive governance reforms, as well as the integration of gender diversity into firm-level, country-specific and regional frameworks for climate change policies and reforms.

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Adjei-Mensah, Gifty and Nguyen, Hanh and Ntim, Collins G., Does gender diversity in corporate boards and executive management teams influence carbon performance? Evidence from Europe (April 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
311
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies