Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Audit Regulatory Effectiveness: Evidence from a unique Canadian setting

64 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Yi Luo

Ivey Business School, Western University

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

This paper evaluates the effectiveness of Canadian Public Accountability Board (CPAB), the independent Canadian audit regulator charged with improving audit quality in Canada. We take advantage of a unique setting where the American audit regulator, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), conducts inspections of Canadian audit firms who conduct audits of Canadian based cross-listed or U.S. only-listed stock market issuers. The existence of two regulators and two sets of regulatory inspection reports allows us to evaluate the comparative regulatory effectiveness. We develop ex ante expectations of regulatory outcomes based on regulatory capture theory (Dal Bó, 2006; Stigler, 1971). The potential for capture in public company audit field occurs in that there is a small number of audit firms (Big 4) capable of doing audits for the largest public companies. Hence, it has long been thought that these firms have both the motivation and resources to capture their regulator if institutional arrangements make it possible. Using hand collected inspection data drawn from CPAB and PCAOB for the same periods, we find a pattern of regulatory outcomes that is consistent with CPAB being a captured regulator. Specifically, we find that CPAB reports a significantly lower audit deficiency rate for Canadian Big 4 audit firms' issuers than PCAOB inspections reveal for their inspection of same set of issuers combined with no difference in CPAB-PCAOB audit deficiency rates for non-Big 4 Canadian audit firms' issuers. The implications of this for both PCAOB and CPAB effectiveness are discussed.

Keywords: auditor regulator, regulatory capture, CPAB, PCAOB, Inspection findings

JEL Classification: M42, M48, G38

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Yi and Salterio, Steven E., Comparative Audit Regulatory Effectiveness: Evidence from a unique Canadian setting (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
L J Abbott , C M Boland , S M Mccarthy , L A Swenson
The Association between PCAOB Revenue-Deficient Audit Engagements and Revenue Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2025
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB research: What have we learned
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Audit Analytics
2023 Audit Fees Report Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
730,194
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies