Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Biases in Interest Rate Risk Management: Overconfidence and the Use of Forward Rate Agreements in Nigerian Banks

14 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Samuel F. Johnson-Rokosu

University of Lagos - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 06, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how overconfidence bias affects the use of forward rate agreements (FRAs) by Nigerian banks to manage interest rate risk, and addresses a critical gap in African behavioural finance research. The mixed method combines a panel regression analysis of FRA prices and volume of trades (2015-23) with semi-structured interviews with 20 Nigerian risk managers. The central bank of Nigeria (CBN) and FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange (FMDQ) quantitative data were analyzed using fixed-effects models, while qualitative information was coded to identify behavioural narratives. Overconfidence, driven by the length of tenure of the CEO (>5 years) and historical forecasting errors, is correlated with a 23 percent higher FRA error (p<0.01) and an excessive speculative volume. Banks with poor governance (e.g. frequent meetings of the risk committee) incurred 15 percentage points higher losses (p<0.05). Transparency measures have reduced speculation by 9 percent (p<0.10), but have not reduced mispricing, underlining the persistence of cognitive biases. The study advocates regulatory reforms, including mandatory disclosure of behavioural risks in Basel III compliance frameworks and standardised FRA price quotations. For professionals, it recommends debriefing protocols such as pre-mortem analysis and stress testing exercises. This is the first empirical study to integrate behavioural finance and derivative techniques in the context of African banking, challenging the hegemony of the emerging markets model of rational agents.

Keywords: Behavioral finance, Overconfidence bias, Forward Rate Agreements (FRAs), Management of Interest Rate Risk, Nigerian banking sector

Suggested Citation:

Johnson-Rokosu, Samuel F., Behavioral Biases in Interest Rate Risk Management: Overconfidence and the Use of Forward Rate Agreements in Nigerian Banks (May 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
E Adegbite
Corporate governance regulation in Nigeria
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 321 - 335 Posted: 2018
O B Adekoya , J A Oliyide
Financial derivatives and risk management in Nigeria
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 456 - 470 Posted: 2021
M Baker , J Wurgler , G M Constantinides , M Harris , R M Stulz
Behavioral corporate finance: An updated survey
Handbook of the economics of finance , volume 2 , p. 357 - 424 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
299
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies