Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability and Audit Outcomes

58 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Md Samsul Alam

University of Derby

Sivathaasan Nadarajah

Griffith University

Date Written: April 21, 2025

Abstract

We examine the role of client firms' managerial ability in audit outcomes. Using a sample of 35,252 firm-year observations of US non-financial firms, we find a statistically significant association between managerial ability and audit outcomes. This suggests that firms with high-ability managers experience fewer financial restatements, reduced internal control issues, lower audit fees, shorter audit report lags, and a decreased likelihood of receiving a going-concern opinion. This evidence is robust to various endogeneity tests, including a natural experiment, propensity score matching, and an instrumental variable approach. Moreover, we show that the impact of high-ability managers on audit outcomes is more pronounced for client firms that suffer from weak governance oversight, have severe information asymmetry, are located far away from auditors, and lack industry-specific auditor expertise, which supports the case for the substitution effects of managerial ability. Overall, our empirical evidence is distinctive and has implications for client firms, auditors, and policymakers.

Keywords: managerial ability, audit outcomes, corporate governance, information environment JEL Classification: G14, G38, M12

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth and Alam, Md Samsul and Nadarajah, Sivathaasan, Managerial Ability and Audit Outcomes (April 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
J L Abernathy , T R Kubick , A Masli
Evidence on the relation between managerial ability and financial reporting timeliness
International Journal of Auditing , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 196 Posted: 2018
M J Ali , B Balachandran , H N Duong , P Puwanenthiren , M Theobald
Does option trading affect audit pricing? Available at SSRN 3184286 Posted: 2022
L M Andiola , D H Downey , K D Westermann
Examining climate and culture in audit firms: Insights, practice implications, and future research directions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
378
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies