Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do corporate sustainability initiatives improve corporate carbon performance? Evidence from European firms

42 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Faizul Haque

University of Southampton

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: April 06, 2022

Abstract

We contribute to the business strategy and the environment literature by investigating the influence of corporate sustainability initiatives and corporate carbon performance of European listed firms. We use three-way fixed-effects model, and our sample comprises of 2,444 firm-year observations from 12 European countries, covering a 16-year period (2004-2019). First, we find that corporate sustainability initiatives, a composite measure comprising of emission reduction initiatives, environmental innovations and efficient use of resources, has a positive relationship with corporate carbon performance, in terms of reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity. Second, we find that the relationship between corporate sustainability initiatives and corporate carbon performance is stronger for firms in polluting industries. Overall, our evidence lends support for the efficiency-oriented arguments of the neo-institutional theory in that organisations respond to climate related risks by making substantive engagements in corporate sustainability initiatives, such as emission reduction initiatives, environmental innovations and efficient use of resources, which in turn facilitates organisations' effort to reduce GHG emission and improve corporate carbon performance.

Keywords: Corporate sustainability initiatives, environmental innovations, environmental policies, efficient use of resources, corporate environmental performance, GHG emissions, climate change, neo-institutional theory

Suggested Citation:

Haque, Faizul and Ntim, Collins G., Do corporate sustainability initiatives improve corporate carbon performance? Evidence from European firms (April 06, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C Williams , C Granapathi , J
Putting the s back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
B E Ashforth , B W Gibbs
The double-edge of organizational legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , p. 177 - 193 Posted: 1990
D Baboukardos
The valuation relevance of environmental performance revisited: The moderating role of environmental provisions
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 32 - 47 Posted: 2018
X Bai , Z Zhang , P Li
Corporate Environmental Performance, Environmental Management and Firm Risk
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 1074 - 1096 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
203
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies