Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual-Based Strategies and Alpha Persistence: Insights from U.S. Shariah-Compliant Stocks

72 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Asyraf Abdul Halim

University of Malaya (UM)

Mohd Edil Abd Sukor

University of Malaya (UM) - Faculty of Business & Accountancy; University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Abstract

This study examines asset pricing anomalies in U.S. Shariah-compliant (SC) stocks, focusing on the role of accrual-based strategies in generating statistically significant alphas. While prior literature highlights the persistence of accrual anomalies in conventional stock markets, the asset pricing behavior of SC stocks remains underexplored. Using a dataset spanning 1993–2023, we construct 175 size-accrual portfolios and test their performance across standard asset pricing models, including the CAPM, Fama-French three-factor (FF3), five-factor (FF5), and six-factor (FF6) models. Using our newly proposed Trifecta Conditions, we find that the CAPM suffers heavily in model misspecification, and subsequently, should be not used. At the same time, we also found that no single model amongst the FF3, FF5 and FF6 have the best model specification to explain all of our size-accrual portfolios. In other words, there exists no one-size-fits-all model to explain the average excess returns of portfolios in our US SC stocks sample, instead, each model performs best in different sorts of accruals. Then, our results indicate that most accrual definitions generate statistically insignificant alphas, indicating that US SC stocks do not conduct earnings management practices, consistent with its fundamental Islamic values. For certain accrual definitions however, statistically significant alphas may yet be found, this is usually the case for narrow accrual definition related to current and non-current operating assets. Additionally, our findings suggest that the size, value and momentum premiums remain the most critical risk factors in explaining average excess returns US SC stocks, while the market, profitability and investment premiums exhibit negligible explanatory power. These results have important implications for investors seeking to implement accrual-based strategies within the US SC stock universe. The findings suggest that while some accrual anomalies persist, the broader US SC market may exhibit pricing dynamics that differ from US conventional stocks due to unique corporate financial behaviors, wider investor base and narrower investment base. By shedding light on these anomalies, this paper contributes to the ongoing debate on the efficiency of US SC stock markets and the applicability of accrual-based investment strategies in faith-compliant financial environments.

Keywords: Asset pricing, Shariah Compliant Stocks, US stocks, Accruals, Asset Pricing anomalies, multi-factors asset pricing models, Accrual anomaly, Islamic Finance, Earnings management and market mispricing

Suggested Citation:

Halim, Asyraf Abdul and Abd Sukor, Mohd Edil, Accrual-Based Strategies and Alpha Persistence: Insights from U.S. Shariah-Compliant Stocks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
K Chan , L K Chan , N Jegadeesh , J Lakonishok
Earnings Quality and Stock Returns
the Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 1041 - 1082 Posted: 2006
E F Fama , K R French
A five-factor asset pricing model
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2015
D Hirshleifer , S H Teoh
Limited attention, information disclosure, and financial reporting
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 337 - 386 Posted: 2003
S A Richardson , R G Sloan , M T Soliman , I Tuna
Accrual reliability, earnings persistence and stock prices
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 437 - 485 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
173
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies