Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Gender Equality in the Context of Corporate
Market Value of Listed Firms in Nigeria

23 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Olabamiji Atanda

University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria

Kenneth William Anietimfon

University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria

Idorenyin J. Okon

The University of Ibadan, Nigeria

Date Written: January 07, 2025

Abstract

The study investigates board gender diversity and firm value by employing samples from listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria between the periods of 2012-2021. This study is based on an ex-post facto research and data was collected from the annual report of 46 listed manufacturing firms on the Nigerian Exchange Group. To enhance the robustness of our results, we measure firm value in terms of share price and Tobin Q. Specifically, to control the model's goodness of fit, the study employed the variable of foreign ownership and firm size. Overall, the empirical findings of this study are mixed in proving the effect of board gender diversity on firm value in Nigeria. Specifically, the study concludes that board gender diversity significantly decreases the firm value of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria when measured in terms of Tobin Q but insignificantly decrease firm value when measured in terms of share price. We also conclude that foreign ownership insignificantly improves the firm value of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria when measured in terms of Tobin Q but insignificantly decrease firm value when measured in terms of share price. In terms of gender diversity, our result illustrates that Nigeria's efforts to promote gender equality and empower women are on the right track. Hence, higher proportion of women on board can facilitate communication and hence, improve performance. Finally, we conclude that foreign ownership significantly reduces the relationship between board gender diversity and the value of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria when measured in terms of Tobin and share price.

Keywords: Board Gender Diversity, Share Price, Tobin's Q, Financial Management

Suggested Citation:

Atanda, Olabamiji and Anietimfon, Kenneth William and Okon, Idorenyin J.,
Board Gender Equality in the Context of Corporate
Market Value of Listed Firms in Nigeria
(January 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
K Agye-Mang-Minta , R Schadewitz
Gender diversity and firm value: Evidence from European banking
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 56 , p. 65 - 88 Posted: 2019
A Almac
Gender diversity in corporate boards and its effect on governance: Evidence from Nigerian firms
International Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 145 Posted: 2018
D N Anh , N T Khanh
The role of gender diversity in improving the performance of Vietnamese firms
Asian Economic and Financial Review , volume 7 , issue 5 , p. 502 - 514 Posted: 2017
B Bhagwat
Firm value: An empirical investigation of its determinants
Journal of Business Research , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 302 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
102
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies