Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Cultural Dimensions and Stock Market Response: Analyzing the Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on Individualism and Power Distance

9 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Dr. Israfil Bangash

International Islamic University Islamabad

Faisal Khan

University of Peshawar

Dr Hameeda Akhtar

International Islamic University, Islamabad

Date Written: May 23, 2024

Abstract

The purpose of study is to analyze the stock market reaction to Covid-19 pandemic in framework of cultural diversity that is individualism and power distance. This study considered daily data of stock market, growth in Covid-19 confirm cases and cultural values for 40 countries from January 2020 to December 2021. The Covid-19 cases data were collected from the website of Corona-virus Resource Centre (JHU-CRC) John Hopkins University and other variables like GDP, economic freedom, stringency index from the WB, IMF and OXFORD COVID-19 Government Response Stringency index of the world. The average returns are negative and fluctuated during pandemic. The finding shows the presence of cultural effect as a moderator and indicates that stock markets are more affected during the pandemic where individualism and power distance is high. The study recommends the significance role of human behavior integrating the cultural differentiation and substantial repercussions for policy makers, academicians and investors.

Keywords: Covid-19, Individualism, Power Distance, Macro Economic Factors and Stringency Index

Suggested Citation:

Bangash, Dr. Israfil and Khan, Faisal and Akhtar, Dr Hameeda,

Cultural Dimensions and Stock Market Response: Analyzing the Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on Individualism and Power Distance

(May 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5248162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5248162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
M O Adenomon , B Maijamaa , D O John
The effects of Covid-19 outbreak on the Nigerian Stock Exchange performance: Evidence from GARCH Models
Journal of Statistical Modeling & Analytics (JOSMA) , issue 1 Posted: 2022
A M Al-Awadhi , K Alsaifi , A Al-Awadhi , S Alhammadi
Death and contagious infectious diseases: Impact of the COVID-19 virus on stock market returns
Journal of behavioral and experimental finance , volume 27 Posted: 2020
A M Al-Awadhi , K Alsaifi , A Al-Awadhi , S Alhammadi
Death and contagious infectious diseases: Impact of the COVID-19 virus on stock market returns
Journal of behavioral experimental finance , volume 27 Posted: 2020
N Alber
The effect of coronavirus spread on stock markets: The case of the worst 6 countries Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies