Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Readability Stability on Investor Reactions to Corporate Cash Holdings

27 Pages Posted: 10 May 2025

Sanghak Choi

Yonsei University - Mirae Campus

Junyoup Lee

Ajou University

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of readability stability in annual financial reports on the marginal value of corporate cash holdings. Using the coefficient of variation as a measure, we find that firms with higher readability stability exhibit greater marginal cash values, particularly under financial constraints and weaker external monitoring. The Plain Writing Act of 2010 further enhanced cash valuations for firms with volatile readability, highlighting the importance of consistent disclosure. Robustness checks, including alternative readability measures, propensity score matching, and fixed effects, confirm the validity of these results.

Keywords: readability stability, marginal value of cash holding, Information Asymmetry, Plain Writing Act

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Sanghak and Lee, Junyoup, The Effect of Readability Stability on Investor Reactions to Corporate Cash Holdings. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5249466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5249466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
M Bai , S Li , L Xu , C F J Yu
How do overconfident CEOs respond to regulation fair disclosure? Evidence from financial report readability
Finance Research Letters , volume 50 Posted: 2022
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
S B Bonsall , B P Miller
The impact of narrative disclosure readability on bond ratings and the cost of debt
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 608 - 643 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
328
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies