Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research on Expanded Information in Audit Reports

27 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025 Last revised: 14 Sep 2025

Hu Dan Semba

Nagoya University

Yoshinori Shimada

Saitama University

Date Written: October 17, 2024

Abstract

Purpose – This study investigates the economic consequences of increased information disclosure from the disclosure of Key Audit Matters (KAMs) in audit reports, particularly on firms' cost of capital. This study also examines the relationship between KAMs and the cost of capital for early-adopting firms. This study examines the regulatory impact by comparing the “voluntary early adoption” group with “non-early adopters.” This study also explores how firm size affects the relationship between KAMs and the cost of capital.
Design/methodology/approach – Leveraging a unique dataset of Japanese listed firms, this study employs pooled ordinary least squares (OLS) regression with firm- and industry-fixed effects and propensity score matching as robustness checks to test early and non-early KAMs concerning the economic consequences of implementing KAMs in audit reports.
Findings—The results indicate that the mandatory application of KAMs increases the cost of capital but not uniformly across different firms. An increase was observed in both non-early adopters and smaller firms.
Originality/value – By utilizing a unique KAMs implementation in Japan, this study investigates the economic impact of mandatory versus voluntary KAMs adopters and how the relationship between KAMs and the cost of capital varies across different firm sizes. These findings provide valuable insights for regulators, highlighting the importance of gradual mandatory implementation of KAMs, especially for small firms and firms that did not participate in voluntary early adoption.

Keywords: Key audit matters, cost of capital, audit report, disclosure, disclosure information

Funder Statement

JSPS (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science) KAKENHI Grant Number 22K01808. The Economic Research Center of Nagoya University

Suggested Citation:

Semba, Hu Dan and Shimada, Yoshinori, Research on Expanded Information in Audit Reports (October 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5250810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5250810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Uk , Ireland , France , New Switzerland , Zealand , Hong Australia , Kong , Singapore , Malaysia , ; Thailand , Gambetta
have adopted ISA 701. Japan's adoption of KAMs can be treated as a case after the execution of ISA 701 worldwide. The auditing and accounting literature provides mixed evidence on investors' perceptions of KAMs, such as information value and perceived audit quality
whereas others do not (Lennox et al., 2023), and some even show a negative trend Posted: 2018
Christensen
They find that non-professional investors are less likely to react to a KAM if they show a resolution statement. Köhler et al. (2020) imply that non-professional investors have difficulty processing information conveyed by KAMs. Using interviews with 20 audit experts, Segal (2019) noted that users often overlook KAMs' disclosures, suggesting a limited impact on investor decision making. Based on stakeholders' perceptions of KAMs' disclosures, Nguyen and Kend (2021) find non-consensus among stakeholder groups on the influence of KAMs on audit quality. This study expands the literature by using the cost of capital as one of the investors' perceptions Posted: 2014
Japan
there remains room for further in-depth research on the economic impact of KAMs' information disclosure, such as its relationship to firms' cost of capital in the Japanese market
Moreover
Cabinet Order Amending Some Cabinet Orders on Audit Certificates for Financial Statements and Disclosure of Corporate Content, etc
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies