Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Reforms and Corporate Transparency: Evidence from the STOCK Act 

80 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Amanda Heitz

A.B. Freeman School of Business Tulane University

Youan Wang

Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE); The University of Hong Kong

Zhige Yu

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: May 12, 2025

Abstract

The STOCK Act restricted executive branch officials from trading on non-public information, potentially curbing firms’ access to valuable policy insights. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that firms with substantial government contracts reduced the frequency and precision of their management forecasts following the Act. Analyst forecast accuracy and stock price informativeness decline. Effects are concentrated among firms that rely heavily on government business and politically engaged firms. Text-based analysis reveals reduced procurement-related language and heightened emphasis on policy risk. Results suggest insider trading reforms may reduce firms' access to discretionary policy information, weakening disclosure and impairing price formation.

Suggested Citation:

Heitz, Amanda and WANG, Youan and Yu, Zhige, Insider Trading Reforms and Corporate Transparency: Evidence from the STOCK Act  (May 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251620 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5251620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Pat Akey
Valuing Changes in Political Networks: Evidence From Campaign Contributions to Close Congressional Elections
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
Divya Anantharaman , Yuan Zhang
Cover Me: Managers' Responses to Changes in Analyst Coverage in the Post-Regulation FD Period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Daphne M Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Jeffrey L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 Posted: 2025
Balakrishnan , John E Karthik , Rodrigo S Core , Verdi
The Relation Between Reporting Quality and Financing and Investment: Evidence From Changes in Financing Capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
782
RANK
538,134
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies