Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should I Stay or Leave? Employee Disapproval and Voluntary CEO Departure

74 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Jaewoo Kim

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Yucheng (John) Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 12, 2025

Abstract

Using employee ratings of CEOs from Glassdoor.com, we find that higher levels of employee disapproval are associated with an increased likelihood of voluntary CEO departure. The positive relation is stronger when firm performance is good, thus ruling out poor firm performance as an alternative explanation. The positive relation is also more pronounced when CEOs work for human-capital-intensive firms and have greater outside opportunities, but weaker when CEOs have shorter career horizons and hold more pecuniary incentives tied to the current employer. Analyses of employee turnover, firm value, and CEO career outcomes provide evidence that protecting reputation in CEO labor markets is a key mechanism through which employee disapproval drives voluntary CEO departure decisions. Overall, we provide novel evidence that the extent to which employees disapprove of their CEOs influences voluntary CEO departure decisions.

Keywords: Employee Disapproval of CEO, CEO Departure, Outside Opportunities, Employee Turnover, Tobin's q, CEO Labor Market

JEL Classification: G3, J3, M12, M14, M51, M52, M54

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaewoo and Seo, Hojun and Yang, Yucheng, Should I Stay or Leave? Employee Disapproval and Voluntary CEO Departure (May 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5251608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
I Babenko , V Fedaseyeu , S Zhang
Do CEOs affect employees' political choices?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1781 - 1817 Posted: 2020
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
RANK
640,233
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies