Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the timing of going dark influence market evaluation? Evidence from the Tokyo Stock Exchange Reform

28 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Ritsuko Okada

Otemon Gakuin University

Date Written: May 14, 2025

Abstract

While the reasons and economic consequences of delisting have been widely studied, little is known about how the timing of such decisions is evaluated by investors. This study addresses this gap by examining a unique set of firms that were effectively forced to delist from a top-tier market and transfer to a lower-tier segment under pressure from the 2022 Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) reform. These firms-referred to as quasimandatory going-dark cases-retained discretion over the timing of their exit, offering a rare opportunity to isolate the market consequences of delayed decision-making in the context of delisting. The analysis first shows that firms with weaker fundamentals-such as smaller size, higher leverage, and lower ROE and PBR-are more likely to go dark. Interestingly, among these firms, those with higher asset growth, stronger market valuations, and more developed governance structures tend to postpone their transfer, suggesting an effort to remain in the top-tier market for as long as possible. Most importantly, this study finds that firms that delay this critical decision face significantly more negative market reactions. This effect persists not only on the announcement day but also over the subsequent 30 trading days, indicating a clear post-announcement drift. These results suggest that investors respond more critically to firms that hesitate to act in the face of delisting pressure, especially when the outcome is inevitable.

Keywords: delisting, go dark, Tokyo Stock Exchange, stock reaction, event study, governance

JEL Classification: G18, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Okada, Ritsuko, Does the timing of going dark influence market evaluation? Evidence from the Tokyo Stock Exchange Reform (May 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5254086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5254086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B Baik , D B Farber , S S Lee
CEO Ability and Management Earnings Forecasts , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
G P Baker , R E Kennedy
Survivorship and the Economic Grim Reaper
The Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 324 - 361 Posted: 2002
S Bernstein , A Dev , J Lerner
The creation and evolution of entrepreneurial public markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 136 , issue 2 , p. 307 - 329 Posted: 2020
W Bessler , J Beyenbach , M S Rapp , M Vendrasco
Why do firms down-list or exit from securities markets?
Review of Managerial Science , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 1175 - 1211 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
786
RANK
713,531
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies