Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategically Small Firms and the Real Effects of Public Grants During a Crisis

48 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Mircea Epure

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Department of Economics and Business; Barcelona School of Economics; UPF Barcelona School of Management

Ozan Güler

CUNEF Universidad

Amedeo Pugliese

University of Padova - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether strategically small firms that avoid surpassing sizedependent regulations in non-crisis periods may have benefited more from public resources during crisis periods. We define strategically small firms as those positioning themselves below either of two thresholds: (i) €6 million revenues, implying less stringent tax and its oversight, or (ii) 50 employees, benefiting from looser labor laws and reduced financial disclosure. We document systematic firms' bunching below the revenues and employees thresholds, suggesting that these regulations may discourage firm growth. We do not observe similar behaviors at other thresholds for accounting and auditing requirements. We then show that these firms were more likely to obtain public funding during the crisis, relative to firms just above the thresholds. Despite accessing more public resources, strategically small firms do not outperform their counterparts in terms of growth or performance during and after the crisis. Overall, we document that size-dependent regulations generate strategically small firms whose behaviors in good times have unintended effects on public resource allocation in crisis times.

Keywords: small firms, size-dependent regulations, public resources, non-market financing, performance, crisis

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M1

Suggested Citation:

Epure, Mircea and Güler, Ozan and Pugliese, Amedeo, Strategically Small Firms and the Real Effects of Public Grants During a Crisis (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the radar: The effects of monitoring firms on tax compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
A W Bartik , M Bertrand , Z B Cullen , E L Glaeser , M Luca , C T Stanton
How Are Small Businesses Adjusting to COVID-19? Early Evidence from a Survey. Working Paper 26989 Posted: 2020
S M Bergner , J H Heckemeyer
Simplified Tax Accounting and the Choice of Legal Form
European Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 601 Posted: 2017
D Bernard , D Burgstahler , D Kaya
Size management by European private firms to minimize proprietary costs of disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 122 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
552,669
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies