Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Perceptions of Revenue Quality Under ASC 606: Evidence From Compensation Design

48 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Zheng Fang

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Joanne Horton

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: March 16, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how boards of directors adjust executive compensation metrics following ASC 606 adoption, providing novel evidence on internal perceptions of principles-based revenue recognition. Using a difference-indifferences design with 15,809 executive-firm-year observations (2015-2020), we find that materially affected firms significantly increase their reliance on revenue-based metrics after adoption, suggesting boards view revenue as more informative under the principles-based regime. This effect strengthens over time and is more pronounced among firms adopting the comprehensive retrospective method. Notably, firms with stronger governance show more restraint in increasing revenue weights, indicating careful consideration of the trade-off between enhanced informativeness and increased discretion. Our findings contribute to the debate on principles-based versus rules-based standards by demonstrating that increased managerial discretion can enhance the perceived informativeness of accounting metrics for internal contracting.

Keywords: Executive Bonus Contract, Performance metric weights, Revenue Recognition

JEL Classification: M48, M12, G38

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Zheng and Horton, Joanne and Segal, Dan, Board Perceptions of Revenue Quality Under ASC 606: Evidence From Compensation Design (March 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
J Ahn , U Hoitash , R Schmardebeck
The Informativeness of SAB 74 Disclosures for Accounting Standard Adoption Outcomes: Evidence from ASC 606 Posted: 2021
W Ali , A Tseng
Identifying the Timing of Revenue Recognition and the Effects of ASC 606 Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
415
RANK
658,366
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies