Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Expert Analysts and KPI Forecasts 

53 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Roberto Vincenzi

Bocconi University

Wanli Zhao

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

We explore the mechanism through which analyst industry expertise facilitates forecasting performance. Utilizing a unique dataset of industry-specific operational Key Performance Indicator (KPI) estimates, our analysis reveals that analysts with relevant pre-analyst industry experience exhibit superior KPI forecasting abilities. This inference is robust to a stringent set of fixed effects and an identification strategy based on brokerage house closures and analyst retirements. Capital market tests indicate that KPI forecast revisions issued by industry expert analysts contain more information than those of non-experts. Mapping KPI forecasts to EPS and sales forecasts using path analysis, we document that KPI forecasting accuracy accounts for approximately 19% (33%) of the improvement in EPS (sales) forecast accuracy. Furthermore, we show that monetary KPIs contribute more to the accuracy of both EPS and sales forecasts. Overall, our study advances the understanding of a key category of non-financial disclosure and its role in shaping analyst performance.

Keywords: KPI, Analyst forecast, Industry expertise, Non-financial disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Vincenzi, Roberto and Zhao, Wanli, Industry Expert Analysts and KPI Forecasts  (May 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Heitor Almeida , Igor Cunha , Miguel A Ferreira , Felipe Restrepo
The Real Effects of Credit Ratings: The Sovereign Ceiling Channel
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 290 Posted: 2017
Jeffery S Abarbanell , N William , Robert E Lanen , Verrecchia
Analysts' Forecasts as Proxies for Investor Beliefs in Empirical Research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Eli Amir , Baruch Lev
Value-Relevance of Nonfinancial Information: The Wireless Communications Industry
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Marco Becht , Julian Franks , Jeremy Grant , Hannes F Wagner
Returns to Hedge Fund Activism: An International Study
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 2933 - 2971 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
RANK
662,989
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies