Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the quality of earnings and foreign non-blockholders mitigate labor investment inefficiency caused by the Japanese sticky labor market?

20 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Takehide Ishiguro

Okayama University

hiroshi ohnuma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kento Fujita

Niigata University - Faculty of Economic Sciences

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether earnings quality increases labor investment efficiency, using Japanese data. Compared with previous studies that analyzed U.S. data, the Japanese economic environment has lower labor market liquidity, making it more difficult for firms to adjust employment. The results indicate that firms with higher earnings quality are more likely to adjust their labor and have higher labor investment efficiency. In addition, the analysis focusing on ownership structure shows that the relationship between high-quality earnings and labor investment efficiency is particularly evident in the presence of foreign nonblockholders. These results suggest that high-quality earnings information is efficient in labor adjustment, even in an economic environment such as Japan, where flexible labor adjustment is difficult. Specifically, the results suggest that earnings quality is important in countries other than Japan, which have less flexibility in labor adjustment and stronger institutions and social systems for worker protection compared with the United States.

Keywords: earnings quality, labor investment efficiency, labor adjustment costs, sticky labor market, non-blockholder

Funder Statement

Takehide Ishiguro was supported by the Grant-in-Aid for Early-Career Scientists [MEXT/JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number JP25K16773]. Hiroshi Ohnuma was supported by the Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research(C) [MEXT/JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number JP24K05209]. Kento Fujita was supported by the Grant-in-Aid for Research Activity Start-up [MEXT/JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number JP24K22630].

JEL Classification: G31, D25, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Ishiguro, Takehide and ohnuma, hiroshi and Fujita, Kento, Do the quality of earnings and foreign non-blockholders mitigate labor investment inefficiency caused by the Japanese sticky labor market? (May 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies