Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance and U.S. Anti-Money Laundering Law: The Responsibility of Cryptocurrency Platforms

3 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

everton korbes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

Money laundering, as we know, remains a persistent global issue. It's deeply connected to organized crime and terrorist financing-challenges that modern societies continue to confront with increasing urgency. The American legal system has taken an uncompromising stance on this matter, reinforcing its position through layers of legislation and regulatory oversight. With a combination of long-standing statutes, strong regulatory enforcement, and the possibility of severe penalties, there's very little tolerance for businesses that fail to comply-especially in sectors driven by fast-paced innovation, like crypto. Today, cryptocurrency platforms are no longer fringe players. They're now embedded in global financial networks, and that comes with responsibilities. U.S. authorities expect these platforms to uphold the same compliance standards imposed on traditional financial institutions.

Suggested Citation:

korbes, everton, Compliance and U.S. Anti-Money Laundering Law: The Responsibility of Cryptocurrency Platforms (May 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Bank Secrecy , Act
Posted: 1970
Usa Patriot Act
Posted: 2001
FinCEN -Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
FATF Recommendations on Virtual Assets Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
116
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies