Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Investors Benefit from Firms' Simultaneous Issuance of Multi-Year Earnings Forecasts?

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12877]

Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 25 May 2025

Caroline Lee

Hanyang University - School of Business

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 17, 2025

Abstract

By issuing earnings forecasts for both current and future years simultaneously, managers provide the multi-year data needed for more accurate valuations and help investors sort out transitory and permanent shocks. We examine whether and how firms’ issuance of multi-year earnings forecasts mitigates equity mispricing. We find that growing, better-performing, and high litigation-risk firms, and firms that missed their guidance issue more multi-year forecasts, while firms facing greater forecasting difficulty issue fewer. After firms issue multi-year forecasts, mispricing tends to be corrected, especially when underpriced firms issue both long- and short-term good news forecasts and when overpriced firms issue long-term bad news forecasts. The delayed response to earnings (i.e., PEAD) decreases when firms issue multi-year forecasts. Analysts’ 12-month-ahead price forecasts become more accurate when multi-year earnings forecasts are issued, suggesting that more accurate analyst valuation is one channel through which equity mispricing is corrected. Lastly, we find that the current-period earnings-return relation becomes more linear when firms issue multi-year earnings forecasts, which suggests that investors underreact less to extreme news because the future years’ forecasts embed earnings persistence data. However, the greater linearity may reflect the higher earnings persistence of firms self-selecting to issue multi-year earnings forecasts.

Keywords: Multi-year forecasts, Management guidance, Bundled disclosures, Short-term news, Long-term news, Equity mispricing, Target price forecast, Forecast accuracy, Earnings-return nonlinearity, Earnings persistence

Declaration of Interest

We have no conflict of interest to declare.

Funder Statement

This work was supported by the research fund of Hanyang University (HY‐202300000003138) and the Seegene Medical Foundation Research Fund of Hanyang University Business School.

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G14, G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Caroline and Basu, Sudipta, How Do Investors Benefit from Firms' Simultaneous Issuance of Multi-Year Earnings Forecasts? (May 17, 2025). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 0[10.1111/jbfa.12877], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12877
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies