Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Ancestry and Fiscal Capacity

52 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Moyi Cheng

Shenzhen MSU-BIT University

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Robert C. Nash

Wake Forest University

Xiaolan Zheng

University of Nottingham, Ningbo China -Nottingham University Business School China

Date Written: May 18, 2025

Abstract

Fiscal capacity-the ability of a government to effectively and efficiently collect tax revenues-varies widely across economies. In this paper, we argue that these differences can be explained by the history of the state. We propose a theoretical framework in which the trade-off between the accumulation of statehood experience in tax collection and the inefficiency of over-centralization contributes to an inverse U-shaped relationship between state ancestry and fiscal capacity. To test this hypothesis, we use corporate tax avoidance as an inverse measure of fiscal capacity and find strong evidence supporting the predicted pattern in a large sample of 56 countries. Our results remain robust when using alternative definitions of state history, additional controls for confounding factors, and different sample compositions and methodologies. Furthermore, consistent with our theoretical framework, we show that both general government revenue and tax revenue relative to GDP exhibit hump-shaped relationships with state ancestry. These findings suggest that the history of statehood influences current tax compliance behaviors.

Keywords: State history, Fiscal capacity, Tax avoidance, Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Moyi and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Nash, Robert C. and Zheng, Xiaolan, State Ancestry and Fiscal Capacity (May 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5259593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , G Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the United States related?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 344 - 389 Posted: 2022
J B Ang
Are modern financial systems shaped by state antiquity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 11 , p. 4038 - 4058 Posted: 2013
J B Ang
Institutions and the long-run impact of early development
Journal of Development Economics , volume 105 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2013
J B Ang , P G Fredriksson
State history, legal adaptability and financial development
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 89 , p. 169 - 191 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
255
RANK
819,493
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies