Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big 4 Auditors and Climate Risk

67 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Hafiz Hoque

Swansea University

Saadia Irfan

Swansea University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We examine the role of Big 4 auditors in mitigating firm-level climate risk. We argue that Big 4 auditors help in reducing climate risk because it can be a source of material misstatements in annual reports and because there is increasing pressure from the investors on the auditors to incorporate climate risk. By analysing a large US dataset from 2010 to 2024, we find that Big 4 auditors are negatively related to firm-level climate risk. This relationship withstands a number of robustness tests. We then explore three sources of the Big 4 effect through mediation analysis, revealing that the negative effect of the Big 4 on climate risk is due to the fact that Big 4 exert greater audit effort, render greater consultancy services, and are more industry specialised. Furthermore, we find that the Big 4 effect is more pronounced when the internal control environment is weak, there is greater asymmetric information in the firm. We also use Critical Audit matters (CAM) enactment and Paris Agreement to sharpen our identification.

Keywords: Firm-level Carbon emissions, Big 4 auditors, Audit effort, Non-audit services, Industry specialist auditor

Suggested Citation:

Hoque, Hafiz and Irfan, Saadia, Big 4 Auditors and Climate Risk. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5260403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5260403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
Konstantina K Agoraki , Maria Giaka , Dimitrios Konstantios , Ioannis Negkakis
The relationship between firm-level climate change exposure, financial integration, cost of capital and investment efficiency
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 141 Posted: 2024
Faisal Alshahrani , Baban Eulaiwi , Lien Duong , Grantley Taylor
Climate change performance and financial distress
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 32 , p. 3249 - 3271 Posted: 2023
Asante-Appiah , Bright
Does the severity of a client's negative environmental, social and governance reputation affect audit effort and audit quality?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
Asante-Appiah , Tamara A Bright , Lambert
The role of the external auditor in managing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reputation risk
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 2589 - 2641 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies