Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Following the blind? Database Coding Policies and the Case of IFRS Noncompliance

forthcoming Contemporary Accounting Research

51 Pages Posted: 20 May 2025 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Sara Alsarghali

University of Mannheim

Hala Jada

SAP SE

Makiko Labonte

McKinsey & Company

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

We present a case illustrating the pitfalls of insufficient disclosure of commercial databases' coding policies. We replicate the finding in the literature that a nontrivial percentage of firms mandated to adopt IFRS ignore this obligation. Specifically, Pownall and Wieczynska (2018) report more than 3,000 cases, or 10% of all mandated firms in the European Union. When using primary data sources (applicable local regulations and firms' annual reports), we find that noncompliance with IFRS adoption is nonexistent in the one-to-one replication using the same firm-year observations. We attribute the prior misperception to the commercial database's insufficient disclosure of a misleading coding policy of the consolidation item. We also show that no other data provider correctly captures consolidation status, which determines whether firms must report under IFRS. In response to this gap, we showcase the application of Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) models for extracting the consolidation status and offer guidance for coding IFRS-mandated firms. Our paper underscores the need to exercise caution when using secondary data sources.

Keywords: Compliance, Databases, Enforcement, IFRS, Machine Learning

JEL Classification: G15, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Daske, Holger and Alsarghali, Sara and Jada, Hala and Labonte, Makiko, Following the blind? Database Coding Policies and the Case of IFRS Noncompliance (May 20, 2025). forthcoming Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5261643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5261643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
J Abraham , M Olbert , F Vasvari
ESG disclosures in the private equity industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1611 - 1660 Posted: 2024
M Agostini , E Costa , B Korca
Non-financial disclosure and corporate financial performance under directive 2014/95/EU: Evidence from Italian listed companies
Accounting in Europe , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 78 - 109 Posted: 2022
E R Alkatheery
Google translate errors in legal texts: Machine translation quality assessment
AWEJ for Translation & Literary Studies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 208 - 219 Posted: 2023
P André , M Schaubschläger , W Schultze
The cash-relevance of IFRS -European legislation regarding dividends and taxation in the context of IFRS reporting Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
653,768
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies