Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Audit Matters’ Disclosure Impact on Investors’ Reaction, Value Relevance, Audit Quality and Audit Fees: Evidence from Europe

59 Pages Posted: 20 May 2025

André Ricardo Marques Carvalho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cláudio António Figueiredo Pais

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jonas Oliveira

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph Zhang

Bowling Green State University

Abstract

The study uses a sample comprising data from listed firms included in the main stock market indices of each European Union country, spanning the two years following the adoption of Regulation No. 537/2014 into the national legislation of each member state. Our main findings reveal that KAM disclosure has no significant impact on investors’ reactions, audit quality or audit fees and is not value relevant. These findings can be explained for several reasons: investors may already be aware of the risks disclosed in KAM or they may trust that the auditors have undertaken sufficient measures to mitigate these risks. The implications for audit quality and audit fees could stem from a perceived absence of resources and effort impact over time, as well as auditors potentially absorbing any extra time or effort related to KAM disclosures.

Keywords: Key audit matters, investor reactions, value relevance, audit quality, audit fees.

Suggested Citation:

Carvalho, André Ricardo Marques and Pais, Cláudio António Figueiredo and Oliveira, Jonas and Zhang, Joseph, Key Audit Matters’ Disclosure Impact on Investors’ Reaction, Value Relevance, Audit Quality and Audit Fees: Evidence from Europe. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5262191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5262191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
M Almulla , M Bradbury
Auditor, client, and investor consequences of the enhanced auditor's report
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2022
Y Amoah , A Anderson , I Bonaparte , K Meyer
Auditor litigation and the penalties on U.S. client firms after the private securities litigation reform act
Journal of Accounting -Business & Management , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 72 Posted: 2018
L Arnedo , F Lizarraga , S Sánchez
Going-concern uncertainties in pre-bankrupt audit reports: New evidence regarding discretionary accruals and wording ambiguity
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 44 Posted: 2008
S Asare , A Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
RANK
592,557
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies