Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Token-Based Platform Governance

FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 25-17

50 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025

Joseph Abadi

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

Markus K. Brunnermeier

Princeton University - Department of Economics

Date Written: May, 2025

Abstract

develop a model to compare the governance of traditional shareholder-owned plat forms to that of platforms that issue tokens. The owners of a traditional platform have incentives to implement policies that extract rents from users. If the platform’s owners can commit to future policies, they can implement a more efficient outcome by issuing a token that offers claims on the platform’s services. Such a token alleviates conflicts of interest between the platform’s owners and its users, mitigating inefficiencies: a policy that benefits users increases the value of tokens and therefore the platform’s seignorage revenue. If the platform’s owners cannot commit to policies ex ante, however, they can achieve the same outcome by issuing a token that bundles claims on the platform’s ser vices with an ownership share (i.e., cash flow claims and voting rights).

Keywords: Utility Tokens, Platforms, Decentralized Finance, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: D4, D18, E40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Abadi, Joseph and Brunnermeier, Markus Konrad, Token-Based Platform Governance (May, 2025). FRB of Philadelphia Working Paper No. 25-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5265617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.21799/frbp.wp.2025.17
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Abadi , M Brunnermeier
Blockchain Economics Posted: 2022
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
F Allen , E Carletti , R Marquez
Stakeholder Governance, Competition, and Firm Value
Review of Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 1315 - 1346 Posted: 2015
R Auer , C Monnet , H S Shin
Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
416
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies