Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marital bliss? Private Equity and the Attest Industry

57 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025

Nicole Donahoo

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Christy Nielson

University of Mississippi; University of Mississippi

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 22, 2025

Abstract

Regulators and practitioners question the impact of the recent influx of partnerships between accounting and private equity (PE) firms. We interview 20 attest partners from firms with PE deals, along with four additional professionals, to examine how these partnerships impact the operation and independence of the attest practice. We adopt a structural metaphor of marriage and use grounding marriage theories as a lens to interpret our findings. We find that firms treat PE partners like marriage partners and retain a one-firm mentality, despite independence requirements that PE-backed firms separate from their attest functions. PE marriages offer advantages like increased capital and business acumen. However, these benefits come with downsides including PE firms' indirect influence on attest entities, cultural integration challenges, and operational inefficiencies. Finally, we document respondents' uncertainty around the future of PE-backed firms and the accounting industry more broadly. Our study identifies numerous areas for future research across methodologies.

Keywords: Audit quality, independence, marriage, ownership, private equity

Suggested Citation:

Donahoo, Nicole and Nielson, Christy and Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott, Marital bliss? Private Equity and the Attest Industry (May 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5266204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5266204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A Agrawal , P Tambe
Private equity and worker's career paths: The role of technological change
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 2455 - 2489 Posted: 2016
AICPA to seek feedback on options to update independence rules governing private equity investments in accounting firms Posted: 2025
2025b. Professional ethics division discussion memorandum: Potential Revisions to the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and guidance related to independence in alternative practice structures
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 7 , p. 2883 - 2905 Posted: 2020
E L Beardsley , A J Imdieke , T C Omer
The distraction effect of non-audit services on audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
RANK
422,747
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies