Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Beyond the Transaction: The Value Relevance of Business Information in Form 10 Registration Statements

44 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Nathan T. Marshall

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Austin Moss

University of Colorado at Boulder

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether registration statements convey value-relevant business information, beyond the transaction-related disclosures examined in prior research. Corporate spinoffs provide a unique setting to isolate this type of information: unlike IPOs, they do not raise capital, involve minimal underwriter activity, and allow for continuous trading of the parent stock when the registration statement (Form 10) is filed. We document a robust and economically meaningful market response to Form 10 filings, both in terms of returns and trading volume. These responses are not positively associated with transaction-related disclosures or linguistic features previously shown to influence market outcomes in related settings, suggesting that investors are responding to business content. Moreover, we find that unique, firm-specific disclosures-particularly narrative disclosures about financial information-are most strongly associated with these responses. Finally, these information effects spill over to future industry peers of the entity being spun off, indicating that the disclosed information is broadly informative. Our findings suggest registration statements serve as a meaningful source of business information, even when the underlying entity was previously part of a public firm. These results have implications for disclosure regulation, the informativeness of segment reporting, and the identification of value-relevant content in financial filings.

Keywords: registration statements, Form 10, spinoffs, business disclosures, investor response

Suggested Citation:

Marshall, Nathan T. and Moss, Austin and Skinner, Ashley Nicole,

Beyond the Transaction: The Value Relevance of Business Information in Form 10 Registration Statements

(May 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5266654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5266654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
S P Baginski
Intraindustry information transfers associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 1987
D J Denis , D K Denis , M D Walker
CEO assessment and the structure of newly formed boards , volume 28 , p. 3338 - 3366 Posted: 2015
T Dyer , M Lang , L Stice-Lawrence
The evolution of 10-K textual disclosure: Evidence from Latent Dirichlet Allocation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , issue 2-3 , p. 221 - 245 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
RANK
772,295
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies