Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A bibliometric review of a decade of Integrated Reporting research

71 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Ajanthan Alagathurai

University of Jaffna; Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Shireenjit Johl

Griffith University

shamsun Nahar

Griffith University

Date Written: February 25, 2025

Abstract

Understanding the current status and future directions of integrated reporting (IR) within today's voluntary reporting landscape is crucial for advancing accounting scholarship and practice. This study presents a comprehensive bibliometric review of IR research alongside content analysis to identify publication trends, research collaborations, leading authors, universities and countries, and emerging themes and subthemes within the field. The study analyses 588 journal articles extracted from the Web of Science and Scopus databases, spanning 2011 to March 2024. Publications' trend analysis shows a steady growth in IR research from 2011 to 2022, followed by a significant decline in 2023. The co-authorship analysis of authors and countries reveals strong collaborations between authors from certain countries, such as South Africa, New Zealand, Italy, and Australia, with a particularly strong network between Italian researchers. In addition, the application of content analysis identifies nine unique themes in IR research: (i) IIRC and IR Framework; (ii) IR adoption and practice; (iii) IR and integrated thinking; (iv) IR quality; (v) IR and economic benefits; (vi) IR and capital types; (vii) IR audit and assurance; (viii) IR vs. other reporting; and (ix) IR and the public sector. A detailed analysis of each cluster indicates that empirical studies largely drive the field, while classical theories such as agency, institutional, stakeholder, and legitimacy frequently underpin IR literature. Several gaps in the existing literature are highlighted, offering promising avenues for future research in the field of IR.

Keywords: Integrated reporting, Bibliometric analysis, Co-authorship analysis, Keyword analysis JEL Classification: Q01, M14, M41

Declaration of Interest

There is no actual or perceived conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

The data analysed in this paper are publicly available. No ethical approval is required.

Funder Statement

Griffith University funded the PhD study of the first author.

Suggested Citation:

Monem, Reza M. and Alagathurai, Ajanthan and Johl, Shireenjit and Nahar, shamsun, A bibliometric review of a decade of Integrated Reporting research (February 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5267111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5267111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
C A Adams , B Potter , P J Singh , J York
Exploring the implications of integrated reporting for social investment (disclosures)
The British Accounting Review , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 296 Posted: 2016
H K Baker , N Pandey , S Kumar , A Haldar
A bibliometric analysis of board diversity: Current status, development, and future research directions
Journal of Business Research , volume 108 , p. 232 - 246 Posted: 2020
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E R Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
V Beattie , S J Smith
Value creation and business models: Refocusing the intellectual capital debate
The British Accounting Review , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 243 - 254 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies