Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analytics-Literate Auditors, Consulting Business Opportunities, and Audit Quality

79 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 24 May 2025

Ru Gao

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 24, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether the benefits of data analytics adoption on audit quality vary with client consulting potential. While analytics capacity is generally associated with lower restatement risk, this relation is significantly moderated by the client's potential for future consulting services. The negative effect is concentrated among frontline auditors and is amplified in offices with greater consulting dominance and in firms with decentralized consulting structures. We also find that audit offices with high analytics capability are more likely to disengage from clients with high consulting potential. Collectively, our findings highlight that analytics-oriented audit functions may play a dual role-improving engagement quality in traditional assurance contexts while also facilitating strategic client portfolio shifts in firms seeking to expand consulting revenue.

Keywords: audit quality, data analytics, audit independence, frontline auditor, consulting opportunities

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Ru and Huang, Sterling and Wang, Rencheng, Analytics-Literate Auditors, Consulting Business Opportunities, and Audit Quality (May 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5267522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5267522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Aicpa
Guide to audit data analytics Posted: 2017
M Alles , G L Gray
Incorporating big data in audits: Identifying inhibitors and a research agenda to address those inhibitors
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 22 , p. 44 - 59 Posted: 2016
M G Alles
Drivers of the use and facilitators and obstacles of the evolution of big data by the audit profession
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 449 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
523
RANK
502,079
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies