Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Narrative Review about Partnering, Outsourcing, Contracting and Procurement

3 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

Juan Rodrigo Roberto

World Citi Colleges - Quezon City - Graduate School Department

Date Written: May 26, 2025

Abstract

Contracting, outsourcing, procurement, and partnership are all interrelated tactics used by businesses to cut expenses, increase productivity, and concentrate on their core skills. In order to achieve shared goals and mutual benefits, entities enter into formalized relationships known as strategic partnerships. Delegating certain tasks, like procurement, to outside experts is known as outsourcing, and it enables companies to take advantage of experience and expand. By creating official agreements that specify conditions and expectations between parties, contracts guarantee accountability and clarity. In order to maximize operations, procurement includes the processes of sourcing and acquiring goods and services, which are frequently made possible through outsourcing. These strategies work together to help firms manage risks, foster innovation, and adjust to changing market conditions.

Keywords: Contracting, Outsourcing, Procurement, Partnering, Foster Innovation

Declaration of Interest

the authors/s declare that there are no conflict of interest or money involved in this paper. no personal, financial with any individuals have influenced this study

Ethics Approval

this study did not involve human participants, patients, or case studies requiring formal ethics approval.

Funder Statement

the funder had no role in the design of the study, data collection, analysis or decision to publish the findings.

Clinical Trial Registration

this study does not involve clinical trials requiring registration

Suggested Citation:

Roberto, Juan Rodrigo, A Narrative Review about Partnering, Outsourcing, Contracting and Procurement (May 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5268862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5268862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies