Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Advertising: Increased Corporate Visibility and Corruption

56 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025 Last revised: 9 Oct 2025

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Zhongze Li

Nanjing Audit University

Yuchen Wu

University of St. Gallen

Yi Zhang

University of St. Gallen (HSG)

Date Written: October 09, 2025

Abstract

Increased advertising enhances a firm’s visibility and market presence, grabbing attention and signalling strength to stakeholders. However, in weak institutional environments, heightened visibility may also attract corrupt officials who see highly visible firms as targets for extortion. Using a sample of Chinese listed firms from 2012 to 2022, we find that greater advertising is associated with increased exposure to corruption, particularly when advertising plays a stronger signalling role or officials face greater informational distance from firms—firms in consumer-oriented industries, firms situated farther from government offices, firms operating in less regulated sectors, and firms with higher information asymmetries. Moreover, the positive association between advertising and corruption is more pronounced for firms located in cities with a greater decline in fiscal revenue. Notably, this effect holds regardless of governance quality, anti-corruption measures, or firm performance, suggesting it is not performance-driven and that firm governance and compliance remain insufficient to curb extortion risks. However, the effect is only present in firms located in cities with poor business environments and weaker anti-corruption enforcement. Finally, we document that corruption induced by advertising reduces a firm’s R&D investment and innovation output, while also lowering government penalties. Our research highlights the unintended risks of corporate visibility in weak institutional settings.

Keywords: Advertising, Corruption, Visibility, Unintended Consequences, Corporate Governance, Enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Li, Zhongze and Wu, Yuchen and Zhang, Yi, The Dark Side of Advertising: Increased Corporate Visibility and Corruption (October 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5271440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5271440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D A Ackerberg , G A Akerlof , F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Empirically Distinguishing Informative and Prestige Effects of Advertising
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 32 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 1970
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do Information Releases Increase or Decrease Information Asymmetry? New Evidence from Analyst Forecast Announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
B S P Anderson , R Renault
Advertising Content
The American Economic Review , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 113 Posted: 2006
K Bagwell
Chapter 28 The Economic Analysis of Advertising. Handbook of Industrial Organization , volume 3 , p. 1701 - 1844 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies