Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operational Performance and Disclosure Tone

47 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Cristina Grande-Herrera

Comillas Pontifical University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Magdalena Kapelko

Wroclaw University of Economics and Business, Department of Logistics

Abstract

This paper examines whether operational performance, as measured by technical efficiency, is reflected in corporate disclosure tone. In addition, we analyze which dimensions of operational performance most concern managers and whether they are reflected in the tone of corporate reports. In particular, we investigate whether balances/imbalances in levels of efficiency are reflected in the tone of corporate reports. Using disclosure narratives of the annual reports of 4,348 US companies for the period 1993–2021, we find that better operational performance is generally related to larger levels of positive tone (generated by including less negativity), less uncertainty, and less hesitancy in disclosure tone. We also find that balances in efficiency reflect operational performance, while imbalances are not related to narrative tone in the way one would expect, which seems to indicate a more strategic managerial disclosure approach.

Keywords: Disclosure Tone, Content Analysis, Operational Performance, Technical Efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Guillamon Saorin, Encarna and Grande-Herrera, Cristina and Kapelko, Magdalena, Operational Performance and Disclosure Tone. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies