Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Interact or Not? On the Benefits of Interacting with Unfavorable Analysts during Earnings Calls

Journal of Accounting Research

68 Pages Posted: 29 May 2025 Last revised: 9 Aug 2025

Jared Flake

Boise State University

Date Written: May 28, 2025

Abstract

Managers prioritize favorable analysts during earnings calls, reinforcing analysts' incentives for optimism. However, managers also frequently interact with unfavorable analysts, and this study examines the determinants and benefits of these interactions. I find that managers interact more with unfavorable analysts when compelled to do so. I then examine two likely benefits of these interactions. First, unfavorable analysts attenuate their negative views after interacting with managers. Second, price reactions to management forecasts are stronger for managers who regularly interact with unfavorable analysts, consistent with enhanced reporting credibility. Finally, using peer firm restatements as exogenous shocks to investors' perceptions of accounting quality, I find that nonrestating firms with managers who regularly interact with unfavorable analysts experience attenuated negative returns relative to other nonrestating peers. Overall, the empirical evidence indicates firms experience significant benefits when managers interact with unfavorable analysts and these benefits persist amongst compelled and voluntary interactions.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Financial Analysts, Managerial Communication, Corporate Access, Conference Calls, Earnings Calls

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G41, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Flake, Jared, To Interact or Not? On the Benefits of Interacting with Unfavorable Analysts during Earnings Calls (May 28, 2025). Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
K Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product Market Competition, Disclosure Framing, and Casting in Earnings Conference Calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 Posted: 2021
S Baginski , K Rakow
Management Earnings Forecast Disclosure Policy and the Cost of Equity Capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
S Baginski , J Campbell , J Hinson , L , D Koo
Ma Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
B Barber , R Lehavy , M Mcnichols , B Trueman
Buys, Holds, and Sells: The Distribution of Investment Banks' Stock Ratings and the Implications for the Profitability of Analysts' Recommendations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 41 , p. 87 - 117 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
407,330
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies