Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ai-Driven Analysis of Sustainability Reporting: Algorithmic Pathways to Financial Performance

67 Pages Posted: 29 May 2025

Waymond Rodgers

University of Hull

George O. Gamble

University of Houston

Fuzhao Zhou

Bowling Green State University

Abstract

We develop an AI-powered algorithmic decision-making framework—the "Throughput Model"—to analyze sustainability disclosures and identify key drivers that link sustainability reporting to financial outcomes. The AI implementation of the Throughput Model follows a two-stage computational process: in the first stage, perception (P) and information (I) algorithms process sustainability data to form judgment (J); in the second phase, perception (P) and judgment (J) algorithms determine decision choice (D) regarding financial implications. We find that AI can detect a positive impact of social performance metrics on financial health for high-performing firms, while for low-performing firms, the AI identifies economic variables as the only significant factor impacting financial health. For high-performing firms, our AI analysis reveals that both economic and social performance disclosures positively impact market value, whereas for low-performing firms, all three sustainability pillars (economic, environmental, and social) show insignificant market value impact when analyzed through our algorithmic framework. This study demonstrates how AI can enhance sustainability reporting analysis by integrating complex sustainability and financial information into explainable decision-making processes. The findings provide regulatory compliance insights and risk management applications, enabling firms and governments to implement AI-driven modeling approaches that improve transparency and effectiveness of sustainability-related financial decision-making.

Keywords: Sustainability, artificial intelligence, algorithms, Throughput Model, comparative study.

Suggested Citation:

Rodgers, Waymond and Gamble, George O. and Zhou, Fuzhao, Ai-Driven Analysis of Sustainability Reporting: Algorithmic Pathways to Financial Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5273284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5273284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
RANK
841,369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies