Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Academia to the Courtroom: Impact of Academic Executives on Corporate Litigation Risk

42 Pages Posted: 29 May 2025

Ping Liu

Jinan University

Hanxiong Zhang

Bangor University

Zhongxiang Xu

China Institute of Finance and Capital Markets

Kai Xing

Nanchang University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Litigation is one of the most common risks a company may face during its operations. This study investigates whether executives with academic work experience (“academic executives”) reduce corporate litigation in China. We found that academic executives significantly reduce corporate litigation, especially when they reach critical mass on the board. Specifically, academic executives affect corporate litigation by intensifying the quality of internal controls and reducing earnings management. Further analyses showed that the effect of academic executives on corporate litigation is mainly because of executives with teaching experience in universities. Our findings shed light on the value of executives’ academic work experience in risk management and corporate governance in the context of the upper echelons and imprinting theories.

Keywords: Academic Experience, Litigation Risk, Critical mass, Executive Characteristics, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Ping and Zhang, Hanxiong and Xu, Zhongxiang and Xing, Kai, From Academia to the Courtroom: Impact of Academic Executives on Corporate Litigation Risk. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5274754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5274754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies