Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Set in Stone: The Persistence and Origins of Corporate Culture 

79 Pages Posted: 30 May 2025 Last revised: 2 Sep 2025

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Yu-Jane Liu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Ruichang Lu

Peking University - Department of Finance

Kaihao Qian

Peking University

Xiaojun Zhang

Peking University

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

Using one of the largest panel datasets on corporate culture, we examine its evolution and origins, distinguishing between firm-level values and norms and the individual preferences of corporate insiders. We find that corporate culture is highly persistent: firms with strong (or weak) cultures tend to remain so over the subsequent decade. The majority of the variation in culture is explained by firm fixed effects, reflecting initial cultural imprints around founding. Leveraging rich data on founder characteristics, we show that initial culture is shaped by founders’ cultural heritage, the racial diversity of their birthplace, and the business environment at the start of their careers. We also provide suggestive evidence that firm-CEO matching on values, as well as the influence of culture on CEOs, contribute to culture persistence. Overall, our findings suggest that a firm’s founding imprint—reinforced through employee selection, attrition, and workplace norms—helps explain the enduring nature of corporate culture.

Keywords: Corporate Culture, Founders, CEOs, Cultural Heritage, Business Cycles, Racial Diversity, Earnings Calls, Employee Reviews

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kai and Liu, Yu-Jane and Lu, Ruichang and Qian, Kaihao and Zhang, Xiaojun, Set in Stone: The Persistence and Origins of Corporate Culture  (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5274830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5274830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
References Ahern , R Kenneth , Daniele Daminelli , Cesare Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Alberto Alesina , Eliana La Ferrara
Ethnic diversity and economic performance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 43 , p. 762 - 800 Posted: 2005
John Bai , Anahit Jianqiu , Mkrtchyan
What do outside CEOs really do? Evidence from plant-level data
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 147 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2023
Samuel Bazzi , Martin Fiszbein , Mesay Gebresilasse
Frontier culture: The roots and persistence of "rugged individualism" in the United States
Econometrica , volume 88 , p. 2329 - 2368 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
418,259
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies