Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Stakeholders Tax Corporations? Evidence from Local Content Requirements in the African Mining Sector

85 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025 Last revised: 9 Sep 2025

Samuel Chang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

I examine the economic implications of local content requirements (LCRs) relative to preexisting taxation regimes in the African mining sector. I first demonstrate that, as intended, LCRs in Ghana compel mining companies to prioritize native employment and procurement, thereby significantly increasing economic activity within industrial mining communities. Based on financial statements and reported tax payments, I find that LCRs reduce corporate profit margins and tax payments, but the economic benefits to Ghanaian mining communities outweigh the forgone taxes. A broader analysis across Africa reveals that these benefits depend on the subnational enforcement capacity of both central governments and local communities, suggesting that the success of LCRs in developing countries is partly attributable to reduced reliance on bureaucratic capacity in favor of private community enforcement.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, Local content requirements, Tax enforcement, Stakeholder enforcement, Employment, Procurement, Mining, Ghana, Africa

JEL Classification: F23, F63, H21, H25, H26, L51, L72, M48, O13, O19, O55, Q32, Q38

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Samuel, Can Stakeholders Tax Corporations? Evidence from Local Content Requirements in the African Mining Sector (May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5276030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5276030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
D Adams , K Adams , R Attah-Boakye , S Ullah , W Rodgers , D Kimani
Social and environmental practices and corporate financial performance of multinational corporations in emerging markets: Evidence from 20 oil-rich African countries
Resources Policy , volume 78 Posted: 2022
D Adams , K Adams , S Ullah , F Ullah
Globalisation, governance, accountability and the natural resource 'curse': Implications for socio-economic growth of oil-rich developing countries
Resources Policy , volume 61 , p. 128 - 140 Posted: 2019
AMV -African Mining Vision Posted: 2009
A Alfaro-Ureña , I Manelici , J P Vasquez
The effects of joining multinational supply chains: New evidence from firm-to-firm linkages
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , issue 3 , p. 1495 - 1552 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
677,550
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies