Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex-Post Settling up of Financial Misreporting and CEO Compensation 

53 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025 Last revised: 31 May 2025

Yuyeon Ahn

Korea University Business School

Sam Han

Korea University Business School

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Taejin Kim

Korea University Business School

Date Written: May 31, 2025

Abstract

In the early years of their terms of service, CEOs tend to face greater concerns about their careers and uncertainties regarding their abilities, leading them to inflate earnings in an attempt to influence their perceived abilities (Graham et al. 2005; Ali and Zhang 2015). We find that financial misreporting decreases to a greater extent after firms with shorter-tenured CEOs adopt  clawback  provisions,  which  allows boards  to  recoup  excess  compensation  based  on misstated earnings. Moreover, following the adoption of clawback provisions by firms with shorter-tenured  CEOs, the  sensitivity  of  CEO  annual  pay  to  poor  accounting  performance diminishes, along with a reduced sensitivity of CEO equity portfolio to stock returns and an 
increased sensitivity to stock return volatility. Our evidence suggests that clawback provisions are particularly effective in curbing financial misreporting among CEOs who face greater career concerns and ability uncertainties. In response, boards adjust the compensation contracts of these CEOs to mitigate the incremental compensation risk imposed by the adoption of clawback provisions.

Keywords: career concern, ability uncertainty, financial misreporting, clawback provisions, pay-for-performance sensitivity (PPS), risk-taking incentive, CEO tenure

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Yuyeon and Han, Sam and Joo, Jeong Hwan and Kim, Taejin, Ex-Post Settling up of Financial Misreporting and CEO Compensation  (May 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5276640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5276640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies