Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest in the Short Interest: The Rise of Private Sector Data

Accepted by Contemporary Accounting Research

58 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025 Last revised: 14 Jun 2025

Yong Chen

Texas A&M University - Department of Finance

Minjae Kim

University of Texas at Austin

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: June 14, 2025

Abstract

Short interest is currently required to be disclosed twice per month, but regulators have sought to increase this frequency. Meanwhile, short interest information from private third-party vendors has emerged to meet investor demand on a daily basis. We find that daily private-sector data strongly predicts bimonthly regulatory disclosure. Furthermore, private-sector data helps price discovery, albeit with modest economic magnitude. Investors tend to underreact to the information content of private-sector data mainly due to limits to arbitrage rather than market inattention. Despite the costly access to private-sector data, we find no evidence that retail investors are harmed in their trades. Overall, our findings highlight the interplay between private-sector and regulatory solutions in enhancing financial market transparency.

Keywords: Short interest, disclosure regulation, private sector, price discovery, FINRA, retail investor JEL: G12, G14, G18, M40, M41

Declaration of Interest

There are no conflicts of interest to disclose.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yong and Kim, Minjae and McInnis, John M. and Zhao, Wuyang, Interest in the Short Interest: The Rise of Private Sector Data (June 14, 2025). Accepted by Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5277084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5277084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Abreu , M K Brunnermeier
Synchronization risk and delayed arbitrage
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 341 - 360 Posted: 2002
F Allen , M D Haas , E Nowak , A Tengulov
Market efficiency and limits to arbitrage: Evidence from the Volkswagen short squeeze
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 142 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 194 Posted: 2021
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
P Asquith , P A Pathak , J R Ritter
Short interest, institutional ownership, and stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
RANK
407,330
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies