Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cascading Capital, Sticky Standards: Transparency Regulation in Global Wealth Chains

57 Pages Posted: 31 May 2025

Saila Stausholm

Copenhagen Business School

Victoria Gronwald

London School of Economics and Political Science

Petr Jansky

Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Social Sciences, Institute of Economic Studies

Marek Sedivy

Charles University

Abstract

Multinational corporations and high net worth elites strategically organize assets across borders to protect and conceal wealth, in a process that has been conceptualized as Global Wealth Chains (GWCs). Different forms of wealth extraction are often analysed in isolation, but we argue that GWCs function as a cascading system, where one form of capital movement enables others. Recognizing these linkages is crucial for designing effective policy. Current efforts to regulate GWC’s primarily emphasize transparency. Such reporting standards however are ‘sticky’, as they don’t evolve with the phenomena they were designed to capture, which makes them a necessary but not sufficient condition to regulate the dynamic nature of global financial movements. We show that extractive industries have numerous transparency initiatives, yet they are far from offering a cohesive understanding of the sector and an actionable base for regulation of GWC’s. Rather, these initiatives form a fragmented patchwork with inconsistent standards. This is often the result of standards remaining fixed even as the phenomena they apply to develop dynamically. We conclude that transparency is most effective for addressing stable financial practices but fails to capture the dynamic nature of GWCs. Moreover, existing transparency measures generate siloed data that cannot be integrated across different types of GWCs. We suggest that policies need to be mindful of potential cascading effects and dynamic changes. This means future regulation needs to focus on both legal affordances which enable cascading, and coordination between transparency initiatives to provide fuller coverage of entire sequences of GWCs.

Keywords: transparency, tax avoidance, illicit financial flows, country-by-country reporting, extractive industries, global wealth chains

Suggested Citation:

Stausholm, Saila and Gronwald, Victoria and Jansky, Petr and Sedivy, Marek, Cascading Capital, Sticky Standards: Transparency Regulation in Global Wealth Chains. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5277470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5277470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
148 References
J Aglionby , N Hume
DRC mining co to renegotiate all contracts within next year
Financial Times Posted: 2018-02-06
J Aglionby , N Hume
DRC mining co to renegotiate all contracts within next year
Financial Times Posted: 2018
L Ahrens , F Bothner
The big bang: Tax evasion after automatic exchange of information under FATCA and CRS
New Political Economy , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 849 - 864 Posted: 2020
L Ahrens , L Hakelberg , T Rixen
A Victim of Regulatory Arbitrage? Automatic Exchange of Information and the Use of Golden Visas and Corporate Shells
Regulation & Governance Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
220
148 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies