Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Governmental Accounting and Financial Supervision Affect the Quality of Analysts’ Forecasts?

13 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025

Chun Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

GuangQiang Liu

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Yifan Zhang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

This study investigates whether Chinese governmental accounting and financial supervision activities affect the quality of analysts’ earnings forecasts. The findings reveal that such supervision enhances analysts’ earnings forecast quality for governed enterprises. Mechanism tests indicate that supervision improves forecast quality by increasing firms’ information disclosure quality. Heterogeneity analysis shows that the effect of accounting and financial supervision on analysts’ earnings forecast quality is more pronounced in samples with faster marketization processes and lower institutional ownership ratios.

Keywords: Financial and Accounting Supervision, State-owned Enterprises, Quality of Analysts' Earnings Forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Chun and Liu, GuangQiang and Zhang, Yifan, How Does Governmental Accounting and Financial Supervision Affect the Quality of Analysts’ Forecasts?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
J. Account. Econ , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
J. Pers. Soc. Psychol , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
J. Account. Econ , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
S Bikhchandani , S Sharma
Herd behavior in financial markets
IMF Staff Pap , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 279 - 310 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
191
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies