Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Patient Surveys and Hospital Resource Allocation

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2025-1571

62 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2025

Vedran Capkun

HEC Paris

Davide Cianciaruso

New Economic School (NES)

Kirti Sinha

Naveen Jindal School of Management, UT Dallas

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

We study whether mandatory surveys of patient experience affects patient mortality in U.S. hospitals. We exploit two settings where healthcare regulators mandated the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) survey: the 2003 Maryland pilot study and the 2007 nationwide adoption. Difference-indifferences analyses show increased mortality for hospitals that were subject to the mandate, relative to other comparable hospitals. We observe this effect before hospitals disclose their HCAHPS ratings, which suggests that it is attributable to measurement, rather than to disclosure. An analysis of changes in hospital expenses shows that, after the mandate, affected hospitals experienced a relative increase (decrease) in non-clinical (clinical) expenses. This finding is consistent with theories of multitasking, which predict that more incentives for one task (in this case, patient experience) cause some reallocation of resources from other tasks (clinical care).

Keywords: regulation, healthcare, patient experience, HCAHPS survey, multitasking

Declaration of Interest

None.

Funder Statement

None.

Suggested Citation:

Capkun, Vedran and Cianciaruso, Davide and Sinha, Kirti, Mandatory Patient Surveys and Hospital Resource Allocation (March 31, 2025). HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2025-1571, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
C Aghamolla , P Karaca-Mandic , X Li , R T Thakor
Merchants of death: The effect of credit supply shocks on hospital outcomes
American Economic Review , volume 114 , issue 11 , p. 3623 - 3668 Posted: 2024
J A Alexander , B J Weiner , J Griffith
Quality improvement and hospital financial performance
Journal of Organizational Behavior , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 1003 - 1029 Posted: 2006
D Betts , A Balan-Cohen
Value of patient experience: Hospitals with higher patient experience scores have higher clinical quality Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies