Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting for the Knowledge Economy

35 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2025

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

The North American corporate landscape is undergoing a $30 trillion transformation amid what many consider the fourth or fifth industrial revolution. Nearly half of the $60 trillion in stock market capitalization at the end of 2024 was driven by companies whose primary assets are intangible. This paper highlights the shortcomings of traditional accounting models when applied to modern, technology-driven firms. I propose several solutions to bridge these gaps, with particular emphasis on the most debated reform: recognizing internally developed intangible assets on the balance sheet. The discussion offers practical insights for professionals who are unfamiliar with recent developments or the ongoing controversy in this area. I also raise several questions that merit further research to enhance the relevance and reliability of financial reporting for contemporary corporations.

Keywords: Intangibles, Financial reports, Knowledge economy, Earnings quality

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Anup, Financial Reporting for the Knowledge Economy (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Ball
What is the actual economic role of financial reporting?
Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 427 - 432 Posted: 2008
R Ball
By what criteria do we evaluate accounting? Some thoughts on economic welfare and the archival literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 54 Posted: 2024
R Ball , P Brown
Empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan , S Zhao
Market valuation of intangible asset: Evidence on SG&A expenditure
Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,058
RANK
186,309
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies