Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Politics, CSR Allocation, and Real Effects

55 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2025

Kirti Sinha

Naveen Jindal School of Management, UT Dallas

June Huang

University of Texas at Dallas

Shivaani MV

The University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: April 24, 2025

Abstract

This paper explores the impact of political influence on a firm's allocation of corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending and investigates whether these decisions subsequently affect social outcomes. Using a novel dataset of Indian firms' CSR spending across different projects and districts within states and staggered timing of Indian state elections, we find that districts receive significantly more CSR allocation during election-years than non-election years. This increase is particularly evident in districts where incumbent politicians are of the state's majority party-that is, the party securing most districts in the state, and in project purposes that are most visible and relevant to voters, such as health, education, and employment. Further analysis suggests that politically influenced CSR mutually benefits politicians and firms: incumbent politicians perform better when their districts receive more CSR investment, and the increase in election-year CSR spending can be attributable to firms with tighter credit constraints. Notably, our evidence indicates that there are implications for local social outcomes: majority party districts continue to attract higher CSR funding after elections and exhibit greater improvements in health, education, and living conditions relative to other districts in the same state. By contrast, historically underdeveloped districts do not display such patterns, suggesting that CSR allocation is influenced more by political considerations than developmental need.

Keywords: CSR, political incentives, Indian Companies Act 2013, public goods

Suggested Citation:

Sinha, Kirti and Huang, June and MV, Shivaani and MV, Shivaani, Politics, CSR Allocation, and Real Effects (April 24, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Aggarwal
The politics of mandatory corporate philanthropy
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 67 , issue 4 Posted: 2024
S Alok , M Ayyagari
Politics, state ownership, and corporate investments
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 7 , p. 3031 - 3087 Posted: 2020
S Asher , T Lunt , R Matsuura , P Novosad
Development research at high geographic resolution: An analysis of night-lights, firms, and poverty in India using the SHRUG Open Data Platform
The World Bank Economic Review , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 845 - 871 Posted: 2021
S Asher , P Novosad
The Effects of Political Connections on Firm Outcomes: Evidence from India
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
RANK
785,362
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies