Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Chief Operating Officer on Operational Efficiency: A Combined Stewardship and Upper Echelon Perspective

47 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2025

Linh Le

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Date Written: May 29, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of a Chief Operating Officer (COO)'s presence on operational efficiency, distinguishing two underlying motives for COO presence: organizational needs and CEO personal interests. Drawing on stewardship theory, we construct a stewardship index based on organization-related factors (e.g., firm size, age, life cycle). In contrast, a CEO personal index, grounded in upper echelons theory, captures CEO-related factors (e.g., power, experience). We find that the stewardship index is positively associated with operational efficiency, suggesting that COO presence driven by organizational needs enhances performance. Conversely, the CEO personal index is negatively associated with efficiency, indicating that COO presence driven by the CEO's self-interest may impair firm operations. Firms characterized by strong organizational motives and weak CEO personal motives exhibit the greatest efficiency gains. These findings highlight the importance of understanding the drivers of COO presence and provide new insights into its nuanced impact on operational efficiency.

Keywords: CEO/COO duo, operational efficiency, upper echelon theory, stewardship theory, organizational demands, CEOs' personal attributes

Suggested Citation:

Le, Linh and Sun, Lili and Yang, Rong, The Effect of Chief Operating Officer on Operational Efficiency: A Combined Stewardship and Upper Echelon Perspective (May 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5280780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5280780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Abelson
A leader's-eye view of leadership
New York Times Posted: 1999
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal , J Malm
Do women managers keep firms out of trouble? Evidence from corporate litigation and policies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 202 - 225 Posted: 2019
B Baik , J Chae , S Choi , D B Farber
Changes in operational efficiency and firm performance: A frontier analysis approach
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 996 - 1026 Posted: 2013
R D Banker , S Fang , M N Mehta
Anomalous operating performance during economic slowdowns
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 83 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
RANK
864,457
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies