Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Misconduct: What Explains DOJ Involvement in SEC Enforcement?

50 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2025

Nathan D. Herrmann

University of Texas at Austin

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

While the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is the primary regulator of the U.S. securities markets, it must rely on criminal authorities such as the Department of Justice (DOJ) to threaten criminal sanctions. If criminal sanctions deter misconduct, then cooperation between the SEC and DOJ is crucial for effective enforcement of securities laws. We show that factors other than the type and severity of misconduct explain DOJ involvement in SEC enforcement. Cases are more likely to involve the DOJ when they have more prosecutorial appeal (e.g., vulnerable victims and dislikable defendants) and the associated DOJ office has more white-collar crime experience. DOJ workload, but not SEC workload, also reduces the likelihood of SEC-DOJ cooperation. These results suggest that the ability to threaten the most severe penalties in SEC enforcement depends on factors beyond the SEC’s control. We find that SEC cases that involve the DOJ are filed faster but are less likely to be filed as settled charges. The SEC is also less likely to obtain financial penalties or disgorgement when the DOJ is involved, while bars and suspensions, which fall under the SEC's jurisdiction, are not less common. 

Keywords: Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Department of Justice, SEC-DOJ cooperation, Criminal Prosecution, Regulatory Design H11, K14, K22, K41, K42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Herrmann, Nathan and Toynbee, Sara and Kubic, Matthew, Beyond Misconduct: What Explains DOJ Involvement in SEC Enforcement? (May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5281107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5281107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Baker
The Securities Enforcement Manual: Tactics and Strategies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 656 - 690 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,181
RANK
315,603
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies