Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

From Structure to Quality: How Hierarchical Depth in the Accounting Function Shapes Financial Reporting Outcomes

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2025 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Shuo Li

Shanghai Jiaotong University

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

We study how the hierarchical depth of a firm’s accounting function—the number of vertical layers between rank-and-file accountants and the CFO—affects financial reporting quality. Greater hierarchical depth could enhance internal control and accountant specialization but may lead to information loss as information is aggregated through multiple layers. We find that greater hierarchical depth is associated with lower discretionary accruals and fewer restatements. The effect is more pronounced in firms with lower levels of digitalization, where additional layers of oversight are more crucial for detecting errors. It is also stronger when higher-level accountants supervise fewer subordinates, allowing for closer monitoring. However, the benefit diminishes or even becomes negative in firms with geographically more dispersed accounting functions, where dispersion may exacerbate information loss. Our findings suggest that the organizational structure of accounting function is an important determinant of financial reporting quality.

Keywords: financial reporting quality, corporate accountants, internal control, internal information quality, organization structure

JEL Classification: G34, L22, M14, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Sterling and Li, Shuo and Wang, Rencheng,

From Structure to Quality: How Hierarchical Depth in the Accounting Function Shapes Financial Reporting Outcomes

(September 04, 2025). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
A Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information dispersion across employees and stock returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 4785 - 4831 Posted: 2021
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , E Krause
The turnover, retention, and career advancement of female and racial minority auditors: Evidence from individual LinkedIn data Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
366,257
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies