Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Libya: A Systematic Review and Comparative Analysis with UK Standards

45 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Ali M. Gerged

University of Sheffield

Abdulhakim M. Masli

Misurata University

Date Written: June 03, 2025

Abstract

This study aims to evaluate current corporate governance (CG) practices in Libya, identify gaps in the literature, and compare these practices with UK CG standards, with a special emphasis on enhancing the role of the board of directors and its committees within the Libyan banking sector.
Using a systematic literature review approach, this research comprehensively assesses existing CG literature in Libya to identify gaps and suggest avenues for future research. Additionally, this study conducts a comparative analysis of CG practices in two different jurisdictions: Libya and the UK. This approach facilitates a critical reassessment of the Libyan CG code and proposes strategic modifications to enhance board functionalities and governance practices in the country.
The review emphasises the urgent need for in-depth CG research in Libya, noting the strong impact of UK academic models on Libyan governance studies. The comparative analysis points out serious weaknesses in the governance of Libya’s banking sector, highlighting the necessity for focused research and extensive reforms. It calls for notable improvements in board functions, addressing governmental interference, and resolving legal deficiencies. Furthermore, the study urges the Central Bank of Libya to adopt and enforce stricter governance standards, which are crucial for improving governance quality.
This study distinctively uses a systematic literature review to identify gaps and set a research agenda in the CG of the banking sector in emerging economies, with a focus on Libya's unique political, cultural, social, and legal contexts. It also conducts a comparative analysis of CG practices between Libya and the UK, revealing the strengths and weaknesses of Libya’s framework. The research identifies critical areas for improvement, aiming to enhance governance practices and inform stakeholders, including government officials, regulators, shareholders, and board members, about necessary reforms to strengthen the CG landscape.


Keywords: Corporate Governance Code, Libya's Banking Sector, Systematic Literature Review, Comparative Analysis, United Kingdom

Suggested Citation:

M. Gerged, Ali and Masli, Abdulhakim M., Corporate Governance in Libya: A Systematic Review and Comparative Analysis with UK Standards (June 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies