Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of External Audit as a Corporate Governance Mechanism to Reduce the Effects of Creative Accounting on the Reliability of Financial Statements

24 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2025

Abdulhakim M. Masli

Misurata University

Ismail Elshahoubi

Misurata University

Fout M Dageeg

Misurata University

Date Written: June 04, 2025

Abstract

The study aims to examine the role of external audit as a corporate governance mechanism in reducing the effects of creative accounting on the reliability of financial statements. A descriptive analytical approach and a questionnaire were used to collect the necessary data to achieve the study's objectives. A total of 120 questionnaires were distributed to a sample of the study population, represented by external auditors. Of these, only 95 were returned filled at a rate of 79%. The necessary analyses of the field study data were conducted using appropriate statistical methods according to the statistical analysis program "Statistical Package for Social Sciences" (SPSS).


The results of the study indicate the existence of a role for external audit in improving the reliability of financial statements, as well as show the existence of an impact of creative accounting practices on the reliability of financial statements. The results also reveal the existence of an effective role for external auditors as a corporate governance mechanism in reducing the effects of creative accounting on the reliability of financial statements. The study recommends a set of measures that contribute to reducing the effects of creative accounting on the reliability of financial statements by continuously developing and training, especially concerning creative accounting practices, the need for public and private companies and institutions to effectively apply the concept of corporate governance to reduce creative accounting practices, and that boards of directors and audit committees pay great attention to monitoring and supervising the work of external auditors.

Note: Downloadable document is in Arabic.

Keywords: Creative accounting, External audit, Corporate governance, Financial statements, Libya

Suggested Citation:

Masli, Abdulhakim M. and Elshahoubi, Ismail and Dageeg, Fout M, The Role of External Audit as a Corporate Governance Mechanism to Reduce the Effects of Creative Accounting on the Reliability of Financial Statements (June 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies