Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Comparing Innovative Alternative Assurance Practices in Emerging Markets

45 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2025

Adeyemi Adebayo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Barry Ackers

University of South Africa

Date Written: June 02, 2025

Abstract

This study explores how publicly listed companies in South Africa and Nigeria, two emerging African countries, have innovatively applied alternative forms of assurance and disclosures to boost their internal operations and the external credibility of their financial and non-financial reporting processes. It also illustrates how adoption may be improved, with respect to the actions that should be taken and the information that should be disclosed. These are explored using an assurance quality measure (AQM) developed by considering six key innovative assurance indicators. Using content analysis, the AQM was applied to the annual/integrated (and, where applicable, sustainability) reports of the selected companies to identify the disclosed assurance indicators. Despite finding that assurance practices appear adequately designed according to the processes and application guidelines in the respective countries, the selected companies in each country did not consistently apply the tenets of the alternative forms of assurance, instead focusing on a few material issues rather than the entire organisational operations. Although combined assurance model adoption is voluntary and not mandatory in South Africa, compliance with the alternative assurance services in Nigeria is mandatory and not voluntary. Nevertheless, South African companies appear to have improved adoption of alternative assurance practices when compared to their Nigerian counterparts. In this regard, we illustrate how adoption and consistent application could be improved and disclosed, providing insight into the possible reasons for these findings. We conclude by providing avenues for further research.

Keywords: Corporate Reporting, Combined Assurance, Organisational Reporting, Other Assurance Service Providers, Engagement Theory of Assurance

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare none.

Ethics Approval

The university granted ethical approval for this study.

Funder Statement

No funding was received for this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Adebayo, Adeyemi and Ackers, Barry,

Comparing Innovative Alternative Assurance Practices in Emerging Markets

(June 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies