Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Echoes of Innovation: Abnormal Market Returns Surrounding GenAI Releases

41 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Thomas Conlon

University College Dublin

Shaen Corbet

Dublin City University ; University of Waikato - Management School

Jose Antonio Muñiz

London School of Economics and Political Science; University of Bath

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) has proliferated rapidly, resulting in widespread market valuation ambiguity due to forecasting uncertainty. This research examines investors' response to major GenAI releases and developments, focusing specifically on the cumulative abnormal returns of US publicly traded corporations as a bellwether for investor expectation and revaluation. The results indicate that GenAI announcements constitute and incorporate risk factors outside of traditional market estimation benchmarks, acting in a compensatory manner due to the inherent ambiguities of the new technology and the unproven speculative potential. Evidence of substantial heterogeneity in market responses is presented, contingent on firm characteristics, where smaller corporations with lower profitability levels and reduced leverage are associated with significantly stronger positive post-announcement CARs, suggesting that investors initially perceive GenAI's value additivity in terms of efficiency gains and competitive catch-up potential rather than scale-dependent advantages. Sector-specific analysis reveals particularly distinct anticipatory pre-announcement trading in the technology and finance sectors. Pronounced market enthusiasm is identified when considering the release of GPT-3, which is compared with muted responses to subsequent GenAI models, providing strong evidence of rapid market learning.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Financial Markets, Market Efficiency, Technological Innovation. JEL Classification: G12

Suggested Citation:

Conlon, Thomas and Corbet, Shaen and Muñiz, José Antonio, Echoes of Innovation: Abnormal Market Returns Surrounding GenAI Releases (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
RANK
826,677
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies