Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overview of AI-powered predictive analytics in audits: Perspective evidence from Kuwait auditors

16 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Awwad Alnesafi

Al Yamamah University

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze the capability of advanced AI as a predictor of audit quality with particular reference to auditors in Kuwait. The research focuses on understanding the role of advanced AI technologies in the improvement of most audit activities around risk, fraud, and compliance. In order to classify the Kuwaiti auditors into different segments on the basis of their internet usage, both the quantitative data collected through a questionnaire survey is used with additional data collected from structured interviews with them. The results are expected to offer a rich and detailed account of the pragmatic opportunities and difficulties of applying AI in audits while highlighting its potential of reshaping conventional approaches. This study contributes relevant knowledge regarding the audit quality and governance garnered from linking theory and practice, providing the feasible recommendations for auditors and policymakers in the member countries of the GCC.

Suggested Citation:

Alnesafi, Awwad, Overview of AI-powered predictive analytics in audits: Perspective evidence from Kuwait auditors (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5285536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5285536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Alnesafi
The impact of audit software on quality of audit in Kuwait: Insights from auditors Posted: 2024
E M Alotaibi
A conceptual model of continuous government auditing using blockchain-based smart contracts
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 17 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2023
E Alotaibi
Cloud computing to audit quality-evidence from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
International Journal of Applied Economics, Finance and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 29 Posted: 2023
E M Alotaibi , A Alnesafi
Assessing the impact of audit software on audit quality: Auditors' perceptions
International Journal of Applied Economics, Finance and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 108 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
323
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies