Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can U.S. Venture Capital Contracts Be Transplanted into Europe?
Systematic Evidence from Germany and Italy

LawFin Working Paper No. 58

SAFE Working Paper No. 450

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 848/2025

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming

78 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2025 Last revised: 13 Jun 2025

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Casimiro Antonio Nigro

University of Leeds School of Law; Goethe University Frankfurt; Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Law

Tobias H. Troeger

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE; Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 10, 2025

Abstract

A vast literature has examined the contractual technology that venture capital (VC) funds and entrepreneurs deploy in the U.S. to define an agency cost-minimising structure of their relationship, leading many to conclude that U.S. VC contracts are the best real-world solution to the challenges bedeviling the financing of high-tech innovative startups and a model for VC transactional practice worldwide.
Yet, whether VC funds and entrepreneurs can replicate the allocation of cash-flow and control rights resulting from U.S. VC contracts in non-U.S. jurisdictions has long been open to discussion. Research by financial economists and legal scholars have reached diverging conclusions. The existing literature exhibits three limitations, though. First, it has generally investigated at most only how a subset of the individual components of U.S. VC contracts fare under non-U.S. corporate laws. Second, it has typically considered the law on the books as opposed to the law in action. Third, it has relied on a loose definition of what qualifies as an effective substitute.
This article examines how U.S. VC contracts fare under the corporate law regimes in force in two important European jurisdictions: Germany and Italy. It does so by taking a new approach to the matter. First, it considers the entire set of arrangements included in U.S. VC contracts rather than a sample. Second, it assesses the legality of those arrangements in the light of the applicable corporate law in action rather than the law on the books. Third, in assessing arrangements that deviate from U.S. private ordering solutions due to restrictive corporate law, it focuses on contract functionality rather than contract design. The results of the inquiry are straightforward: German and Italian corporate laws literally crash contracting parties’ ambition to transplant U.S. VC contracts into their own jurisdictions and only allow for alternative arrangements that, if available at all, are costlier and/or less functional.

Keywords: Comparative Corporate Law, Comparative Corporate Governance, Entrepreneurship, Financial Contracting, Private ordering, Start-ups, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: G38, K22, L26

Suggested Citation:

Enriques, Luca and Nigro, Casimiro Antonio and Tröger, Tobias Hans, Can U.S. Venture Capital Contracts Be Transplanted into Europe?
Systematic Evidence from Germany and Italy (June 10, 2025). LawFin Working Paper No. 58, SAFE Working Paper No. 450, European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 848/2025, Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5287685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5287685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Weitnauer See
, volume 8
See AktG, § 9 para. 1 and GmbHG
Weitnauer See , Holger Fleischer , & Wulf
AktG, § 255 para. 2 grants shareholders the right to challenge that resolution
Schürnbrand & Dirk Verse, § 186 in MÜNCHENER KOMMENTAR ZUM AKTG , volume 4 Posted: 2022-01
For the templates of the relevant contractual provisions, see Stefan-Ulrich Müller
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
149,425
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies