Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Web and Capital Markets

55 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025 Last revised: 13 Jun 2025

Brigham Brau

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Juuso Itkonen

Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Junyoung Jeong

University of Texas at Dallas

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Mikko Niemela

Singapore Management University - Lee Kong Chian School of Business

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

We use granular dark web data to infer cyber incidents and link them to capital market outcomes. We find that dark web activity increases before cyber breaches are disclosed, suggesting that many breaches occur substantially earlier than reported. Consistent with capital market awareness, information asymmetry and informed trade rise during periods of elevated dark web activity prior to cyber breach disclosure. Next, we identify firm-level periods of heightened dark web activity with no subsequent breach disclosure, which we term "shadow breaches." These episodes exhibit similar characteristics to disclosed breaches, are associated with increased information asymmetry and informed trading and are followed by negative stock returns. Using dark web activity to identify an adjusted event date, we find a negative market reaction around the adjusted breach date, but not around the disclosure date, suggesting that dark web activity preempts breach disclosure. Lastly, we find that breach activity is more likely to be disclosed in high-tech industries and among firms monitoring the dark web. Our findings support the usefulness of dark web data to detect cyber breaches and suggest cyber breaches are more prevalent than disclosed, disclosure is often delayed, and firms monitoring the dark web are more likely to detect breaches.

Keywords: Dark web, informed trading, cybercrime, cyber breach

JEL Classification: G14, G18, D82

Suggested Citation:

Brau, Brigham and Itkonen, Juuso and Jeong, Junyoung and Lang, Mark H. and Niemela, Mikko, The Dark Web and Capital Markets (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5288434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5288434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Akey , V Grégoire , C Martineau
Price revelation from insider trading: Evidence from hacked earnings news
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , issue 3 , p. 1162 - 1184 Posted: 2022
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
E Amir , S Levi , T Livne
Do firms underreport information on cyber-attacks? Evidence from capital markets
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1177 - 1206 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
RANK
162,515
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies