Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retained Earnings, Dividend Policy and Financial Performance of Cooperative Societies in Abeokuta, Ogun State, Nigeria
Social Sciences & Humanities Open

12 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2025 Publication Status: Under Review

AKINWUMI TAOFIKI TALEATU

Mountain Top University

Oladele John Akinyomi

Mountain Top University

Taofiki Akinwumi Taleatu

Mountain Top University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Noticeable challenges facing most cooperative societies in Ogun state are earnings retention and membership dividend policy. Some cooperative societies deviate from the norms but based dividend payments on discretion. Consequently, the effect of retained earnings and policies regarding dividends on financial performance of cooperative society’s in Ogun State was examined. Design of ex-post facto was explored, as information was gathered from the financial statements of the selected organizations. The credit cooperative societies were selected by balloting technique to avoid bias. The data extracted were subjected to robust statistical analyses including means, kurtosis, skewness, Jarque-Bera, Hausman test and Fixed Effect Multiple Linear Regression using E-View 10 Statistical Package. This study recorded one-unit increase in retained earnings will produce an increase in financial performance at 5% significant level. Further finding revealed that as dividend per share increases, financial performance also increases at 10% significant level. This research concluded that dividend policy and retained revenues demonstrated significant favorable outcome on the economic outcomes. Consequently, it was recommended that the governance of the cooperative societies should raise retained earnings for more investment to enhance performance and maintain the existing dividend policy or consider an upward review to further improve the performance of the organizations.

Keywords: Credit cooperative societies, Cooperative size, dividend policy, financial performance, retained earnings, return on equity

Suggested Citation:

TALEATU, AKINWUMI TAOFIKI and Akinyomi, Oladele John and Taleatu, Taofiki Akinwumi, Retained Earnings, Dividend Policy and Financial Performance of Cooperative Societies in Abeokuta, Ogun State, Nigeria. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5289495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5289495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A B Abiso , B D Okubadejo , L O Ilori , S A Adeogun
Capital structure: A determinant of firm's value in Nigeria
Lafia Journals of Economics and Management Science , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 85 Posted: 2016
A A Abisodun
Capital structure and firm performance in Nigeria
Kubua Journal of Business Finance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 64 - 105 Posted: 2016
A A Adedeji
Does the pecking order hypothesis explain the dividend payout ratios of firms in the U.K?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 1127 - 1155 Posted: 1998
O Akinyomi , A Olagunju
Determinants of capital structure in Nigeria
International Journal of Innovation and Applied Studies , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 999 - 1005 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
135
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Social Sciences & Humanities Open First Look
All Journals (1898)
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies