Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Ratings and Financial Reporting Quality: Why Social Performance Matters

18 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Rimona Palas

College of Law and Business

Dalit Gafni

College of Management (Israel)

Dov Solomon

College of Law and Business - Ramat Gan Law School

Ido Baum

College of Management Academic Studies

Abstract

While ESG ratings are increasingly used in investment decisions, no prior study has comprehensively examined how the individual ESG pillars relate to financial reporting quality (FRQ). Using a sample of U.S.-listed firms from 2012 to 2022, we analyze the separate effects of the environmental, social, and governance components on FRQ, measured by earnings persistence and the ability of earnings to predict future cash flows. We find a strong association between the social pillar and FRQ. This relationship further strengthens following the 2019 Business Roundtable Statement on corporate purpose. Our results support a more disaggregated, pillar-specific approach to ESG.

Keywords: ESG Ratings, ESG pillars, Sustainability, Financial reporting quality (FRQ), earnings quality, Earnings Persistence, Earnings predictability, Transparency, Corporate governance, Business Roundtable

Suggested Citation:

Palas, Rimona and Gafni, Dalit and Solomon, Dov and Baum, Ido, ESG Ratings and Financial Reporting Quality: Why Social Performance Matters. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5290631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5290631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies