Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Corporate Leverage Manipulation: An Opportunistic Perspective

15 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Anqi Liang

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Meng Zhao

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Xinyi Zhang

Yunnan University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

This paper adopts an “opportunistic” theoretical perspective and uses China's Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listed companies from 2012 to 2022 as the research sample to analyze the relationship between directors' and officers' liability insurance (D&O insurance) and corporate leverage manipulation behavior. The study finds that, driven by the risk backstop effect, D&O insurance tends to facilitate corporate leverage manipulation behavior and exacerbates the causal relationship between corporate financing constraints, operational risks, and manipulation of leverage. Heterogeneity analysis indicates that the exacerbating effect of D&O insurance on leverage manipulation is more significant in companies with lower digitalization levels and those not audited by the Big Four accounting firms. The findings of this study provide theoretical support for improving the D&O insurance system and strengthening external oversight.

Keywords: directors' and officers' liability insurance, corporate leverage manipulation, opportunistic effect

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Anqi and Zhao, Meng and Zhang, Xinyi, Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Corporate Leverage Manipulation: An Opportunistic Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5292922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5292922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
X Xu , Z Lu
2rZIa6UBM5BHKjfilNhPszAAmslW0-fYOC_6_Zzemn_mEQgHe2F1iegvSu49ifWMZTFbqqbTPB1A6gG VzlKoRas79cdWXE6zzAkWl0hMGkI6
Accounting Research , issue 1 , p. 92 - 99 Posted: 2020
L Li
Chain Shareholders and Corporate Leverage Manipulation: Synergistic Governance or Manipulative Collusion
Finance and Economics , issue 11 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2023
R Yuan , J Sun , F Cao
Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Stock Price Crash Risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 173 - 192 Posted: 2016
L Lai , Y Tang , X Xia
Does Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance Reduce Corporate Risk?-Based on the Perspectives of Short-term Lending and Credit Access
Management World , volume 35 , issue 10 , p. 160 - 171 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
84
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies