Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and Clean Surplus Accounting: A Qualitative Analysis

26 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Javed Mahmood

Victoria University

Pervaiz Mahmood

University of Education

Abstract

The study focuses on the impact of Clean Surplus Accounting (CSA) on the earnings quality and decision usefulness of financial statements through the treatment of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). By accounting for all changes in equity other than those related to transactions with owners through the income statement, CSA provides a complete and transparent view of performance versus the cleaner but potentially misleading "dirty surplus" approach.The study assesses OCI’s influence on financial analysis, valuation models, and earnings predictability through qualitative content analysis of multinational corporations’ (Apple, Nestlé, Toyota) financial reports, regulatory review, and thematic stakeholder analysis. Although CSA enhances transparency and accounting comparability in the face of these complexities, (i) challenges still exist in quantifying, either directly or indirectly, OCI, (ii) classification of OCI is neither principle nor rule-based (therefore relies, to some extent, on managerial discretion), and (iii) IFRS and US-GAAP dilute transparency comparable on OCI under different regulatory regimes, (iv) the associated disclosures are imperfect. We note the trade-offs between informative volatility and interpretive complexity in OCI reporting, and encourage global standardization, enhanced disclosures, and investor education to enable CSA to achieve its full potential. Integrating OCI into valuation, strengthening regulatory oversight, and promoting financial literacy are among the recommendations.These findings underscore CSA’s ability to align accounting earnings closer to economic performance, leading to more reliable investment decisions and improved efficiency in the marketplace.

Keywords: earnings quality, Clean surplus accounting, Dirty surplus accounting, Other comprehensive income, Comprehensive income.

Suggested Citation:

Mahmood, Javed and Mahmood, Pervaiz, Earnings Quality and Clean Surplus Accounting: A Qualitative Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5294146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5294146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2004
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , D P Cram , K K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
193
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies