Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservative Financial Reporting, Dividend Smoothing, and Firm Value

66 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Ioannis Chasiotis

Agricultural University of Athens; American College of Greece (DEREE)

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex

Date Written: June 15, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how dividend smoothing relates to conditional conservatism, a financial reporting stance known to mitigate asymmetric information and agency problems between managers and capital providers. We expect that conservatism should be significantly associated with dividend smoothing behavior, as the latter is also driven by moral hazard and agency considerations. Using US listed firms between 1998-2022, we find that conservatively reporting firms smooth dividends less. Endogeneity tests, including a quasi-natural experiment based on the adoption of SFAS 142, provide evidence of a causal relationship between financial reporting policies and dividend smoothing. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the negative relationship between conditional conservatism and dividend smoothing is less pronounced in settings with lower agency problems and information asymmetry—where conservatism may play a diminished role in mitigating these concerns. This suggests that conditional conservatism disciplines managers, discoursing the practice of dividend smoothing. Finally, we document that investors do not prefer smooth dividend payout streams, especially for firms reporting under low levels of conditional conservatism. Overall, our findings suggest that conservatism is not only an important determinant of dividend smoothing but also shapes how this practice is perceived by market participants. 

Keywords: conditional conservatism, asymmetric timely loss recognition, dividend smoothing, payout policies, agency problems JEL Classification: D82, G30, G34, G35, G38, M41

JEL Classification: D82, G30, G34, G35, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Chasiotis, Ioannis and Loukopoulos, Georgios, Conservative Financial Reporting, Dividend Smoothing, and Firm Value (June 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5295981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5295981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
121 References
V Acharya , B Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Dividend smoothing and debt ratings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 439 - 453 Posted: 2006
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
K D Allee , T E Christensen , B S Graden , K J Merkley
The genesis of voluntary disclosure: An analysis of firms' first earnings guidance
Management Science , volume 67 , issue 3 , p. 1329 - 1992 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
791,953
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies