Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ai Employment and Political Risk Disclosures in Earnings Calls

50 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2025

Erdinc Akyildirim

University of Nottingham

Gamze Ozturk Danisman

Istanbul Bilgi University

Steven Ongena

University of Zurich - Department Finance; Swiss Finance Institute; KU Leuven; NTNU Business School; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Using a panel of 929 U.S. publicly listed firms, this paper investigates the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) employment on the disclosure of political risk in corporate earnings calls. We utilize the firm-level AI employment measure developed by Babina et al. (2024), based on resume and job posting records. Furthermore, we supplement it with our newly generated AI disclosure indices at the firm level, created through textual analysis of earnings call transcripts. Our findings indicate that firms with greater AI employment are significantly less likely to disclose information about political risk during earnings calls. We propose a dual mechanism that underpins this association. First, AI enables narrative management: firms use AI tools to strategically alter the tone and wording of disclosures, avoiding phrases that may elicit unfavorable sentiment, leading to a reduction in reputational risk. Second, AI improves firms’ internal performance and risk management, hence reducing the need for voluntary political risk disclosures. Our findings add to the literature on voluntary disclosure and the economic implications of AI by indicating that AI, as a general-purpose technology, has unintended consequences for corporate transparency.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence (AI), political risk, voluntary disclosures, earnings calls, textual analysis, AI disclosure index

Suggested Citation:

Akyildirim, Erdinc and Danisman, Gamze Ozturk and Ongena, Steven R. G., Ai Employment and Political Risk Disclosures in Earnings Calls. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5298770 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5298770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
655
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies