Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Fees: A Significant Reform of the Luxembourg VAT Rules Ahead?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 117-120

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Erwan Loquet

Independent

Dimitrios Karoutis

Independent

Abstract

With its ruling in the TP case (C-288/22), the ECJ addresses for the first time the issue of the VAT treatment of company directors and paves the way for a radical change of the Luxembourg VAT landscape. In this article, the authors give an insight into the VAT implications for the directors and companies concerned and discuss some key questions that seek further guidance from the local court and the Luxembourg VAT authorities.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3pcjfk7

Keywords: VAT, directors' fees, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Loquet, Erwan and Karoutis, Dimitrios, Directors’ Fees: A Significant Reform of the Luxembourg VAT Rules Ahead?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 117-120, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3pcjfk7
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies