Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mortgage Companies' Compliance with the State-Level Community Reinvestment Act --Performance Management or Real Investment?

58 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Clark Shu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ethan Yao

Neoma Business School

Haiwen (Helen) Zhang

University of Minnesota

Date Written: June 16, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines whether non-bank mortgage companies’ compliance with state-level Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) is a result of performance management or real investment. Leveraging the 2007 CRA rule change in Massachusetts (MA), we find that affected mortgage companies increase purchases, but not originations, of low-to-moderate-income (LMI) loans that qualify for CRA credit. In addition, inconsistent with the argument that loan purchase allows mortgage companies to gain understanding of unfamiliar areas and increase liquidity for the segments of loans with high information asymmetry, this increased loan purchase is concentrated in loans issued in the mortgage company’s familiar LMI neighborhoods and made to safer borrowers. We also document immediately reversed LMI loan purchase after mortgage companies receive satisfactory CRA ratings when they are unlikely to be examined again. Importantly, we detect no increase in mortgage originations in LMI tracts either by affected lenders or in aggregate, but find a reduction in mortgage rates in MA LMI areas for safer borrowers. These findings suggest that mortgage companies manage CRA performance by trading safer LMI loans. While such performance management does not increase mortgage supply to LMI areas, increased secondary-market demand for safer loans in LMI areas benefits these borrowers through lower interest rates.

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Scott and Shu, Clark Guanzhong and Yao, Ethan and Zhang, Haiwen (Helen), Mortgage Companies' Compliance with the State-Level Community Reinvestment Act --Performance Management or Real Investment? (June 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
V Acharya , P Schnabl , G Suarez
Securitization without Risk Transfer
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 515 - 536 Posted: 2013
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loss Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management, and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
P Avramidis , G Pannacchi , L Serfes , K Wu
The Role of Regulation and Bank Competition in Small Firm Financing: Evidence from the Community Reinvestment Act
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking , volume 54 , p. 2301 - 2340 Posted: 2022
M Barr
Credit Where It Counts: The Community Reinvestment Act and Its Critics
NYU Law Review , volume 80 , p. 513 - 652 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
RANK
730,194
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies