Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accounting Information Quality on the Cost of Equity Capital of Companies Considering the Role of Information Asymmetry and the Comparability of Financial Statements

https://doi.org/10.22054/qjma.2021.39721.1957

23 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025 Last revised: 27 Jun 2025

Mohammadarian Ghahremanizahraie

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 21, 2020

Abstract

The aim of this study is to explain the impact of accounting information quality on the cost of equity capital of companies and to examine the moderating role of information asymmetry as well as the simultaneous moderating effect of this variable and the comparability of financial statements in this context. The study period spans five years, from the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2017, and the research sample includes 91 companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange. Multivariate regression was used for statistical analyses. The results of the analyses indicate that accounting information quality has an inverse effect on the cost of equity capital, such that higher accounting information quality leads to a reduction in the cost of equity capital, and vice versa. Additionally, information asymmetry has a direct relationship with this effect. However, the simultaneous effect of financial statement comparability and information asymmetry on the impact of accounting information quality on the cost of equity capital was not confirmed. The results of this study in the first two hypotheses are consistent with prior research conducted in the United States examining the impact of accounting information quality on the cost of equity capital, but the result of the third hypothesis indicates a lack of alignment with those findings.

Keywords: Accounting information quality, Cost of equity capital, Financial statement comparability, Information asymmetry, Discretionary accruals

Suggested Citation:

Ghahremanizahraie, Mohammadarian, The Impact of Accounting Information Quality on the Cost of Equity Capital of Companies Considering the Role of Information Asymmetry and the Comparability of Financial Statements (December 21, 2020). https://doi.org/10.22054/qjma.2021.39721.1957, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5312141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5312141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
E Abbasi , M Bazrafshan
Examining the relationship between earnings quality, voluntary disclosure, information asymmetry and cost of equity capital in companies listed in Tehran Stock Exchange Posted: 2016
A Afaltounian
Statistical analysis with EViews in accounting and financial management research Posted: 2017
A Azar , M Momeni
Statistics and its application in management Posted: 2009
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C D Williams
Effects on comparability and capital market benefits of voluntary adoption of IFRS by US firms: Insights from voluntary adoption of IFRS by non-US firms Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
378
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies