Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Financial Disclosure Integration in Financial Reports

50 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

A. Nicole Skinner

University of Colorado at Boulder

Jasmine Wang

University of Virginia

Date Written: June 20, 2025

Abstract

Prior research indicates that narrative disclosure in financial reports helps investors contextualize financial information. However, regulators often require firms to include non-financial disclosures in designated locations within financial reports to increase accessibility, potentially taking information out of context. We rely on the human capital disclosure setting to provide new insights into the costs and benefits of non-financial disclosure integration in financial reports. We provide robust evidence that integrated human capital disclosure is positively associated with the unsigned market response to 10-K filings. This result is concentrated in firm years in which investors have more financial news to process and holds when we exploit decreases in integration around the SEC’s 2020 human capital disclosure mandate. Our findings are consistent with non-financial disclosure integration in financial reports reducing the cost of processing financial information. We further document that integrated human capital disclosure in 10-K filings is associated with a muted market response to employment violation news, suggesting that the usefulness of non-financial disclosure integration in financial reports varies with the nature of investors’ information search.

Keywords: non-financial disclosure, human capital disclosure, non-financial disclosure integration, narrative disclosure, narrative structure, disclosure regulation, processing costs, human capital disclosure mandate

Suggested Citation:

Skinner, Ashley Nicole and Wang, Jasmine, Non-Financial Disclosure Integration in Financial Reports (June 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5314314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5314314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone integration
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
S Arif , Y S J Yoon , H H Zhang
The information content of mandatory human capital disclosures-initial evidence Posted: 2022
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
520
RANK
545,411
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies