Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Forecasts in Multi-Location Firms

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research

57 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025 Last revised: 25 Jun 2025

Lindsey A. Gallo

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

James D. Omartian

University of Michigan - Ross School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the dynamics of internal forecasting in multi-location firms and the relations between forecast characteristics and investment. Using US Census microdata on plant-level growth expectations, we find that plants within multi-location firms make forecasts that are both more certain and less accurate than those of standalone plants. We provide evidence suggesting that headquarters infers uncertainty from inter-plant forecast disagreement, and that headquarters is able to facilitate the use of relevant information held by one plant but applicable to another. Differences between peer and focal plants' forecasts predict forecast errors and relate to investment decisions at the focal plant, suggesting that information from multiple sources is integrated into capital allocation decisions. Headquarters' heavier use of peer plant forecast information when focal plants are more uncertain likely weakens focal plant managers' incentives to consider extreme scenarios when forecasting. 

Keywords: Forecasting, uncertainty, forecast accuracy, investment, resource allocation

JEL Classification: D25, D84, G31, L23, M11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gallo, Lindsey A. and Labro, Eva and Omartian, James D., Internal Forecasts in Multi-Location Firms (June 21, 2025). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5315060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5315060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Antle , G D Eppen
Capital Rationing and Organizational Slack in Capital Budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
R D Banker , D Byzalov , J M Plehn-Dujowich
Demand uncertainty and cost behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 839 - 865 Posted: 2014
J M Barrero
The micro and macro of managerial beliefs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 143 , p. 640 - 667 Posted: 2022
I Ben-David , J R Graham , C R Harvey
Managerial miscalibration
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 128 , p. 1547 - 1584 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
RANK
687,436
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies