Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A divergence of dynamics: Temporal issues between modelling forecasts of physical carbon emissions and monetary cost of damage

54 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

Jimmy Jia

Smith School for Enterprise and the Environment, Oxford University; Energy and Environmental Management Institute, George Washington University; UK Centre for Greening Finance and Investment

Nicola Ranger

London School of Economics, Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment

Barbara Rossi

University of Oxford

Date Written: June 22, 2025

Abstract

While the relationship between greenhouse gas emissions and economic damage from climate change is well studied at the level of global policy making, this paper studies their relationship at the project level. A Passivhaus is a type of building that generally emits more upfront emissions due to construction to achieve lower emissions over the lifetime of the building's operations. Because both conventional financial cost benefit models and whole life cycle accounting are a summation of upfront and ongoing indicators, there lacks an analysis of the trade-off between the two. To fix this gap, this paper studies the effect of upfront and ongoing emissions with a payback analysis, showing how modelling physical emissions alongside financial costs can generate false positives (negatives) where the financial model suggests a project is (is not) worthwhile while physical emission models indicate otherwise. Second, we find that cost-benefit analysis can be more sensitive to upfront and ongoing emissions as compared to electricity prices and cost of carbon by an order of magnitude. Both the Passivhaus and the counterfactual benchmark building fall within one standard deviation of typical emissions values for construction. The results highlight the importance of relying on measurements to determine whether an emissions intervention is the lower carbon value, rather than rely on modelled assumptions.

Keywords: Carbon accounting, climate change, cost of carbon, UK Green Book, shadow price of carbon

JEL Classification: Q56, Q54, O13, P18

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Jimmy and Ranger, Nicola and Rossi, Barbara, A divergence of dynamics: Temporal issues between modelling forecasts of physical carbon emissions and monetary cost of damage (June 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5315423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5315423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
D Anthoff , R S J Tol , G W Yohe
Discounting for climate change Posted: 2009
Economics. The Open-Access, Open-Assessment e-Journal , volume 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2009
O I Asensio , M A Delmas
The effectiveness of US energy efficiency building labels
Nature Energy , volume 2 , issue 4 Posted: 2017
M F Ashby
Materials and the environment: Eco-informed material choice Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
RANK
848,823
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies