Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Qualitative Characteristics of the Audit Committee and the Proportion of Non-Executive Board Members on the Cost of Equity

Proceedings of the MACONF Conference, Middle East Accounting Conference 2020, Civilica, Paper Code: maconf-04480958

19 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

Mohammadarian Ghahremanizahraie

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 02, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the qualitative characteristics of the audit committee (size, expertise, and independence of audit committee members) and the proportion of non-executive board members on the cost of equity for companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange. In this regard, 85 companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange were selected for the period 2015 to 2017. After collecting the relevant data, the study's hypotheses were tested using EViews 10 software. Multivariate regression and panel data analysis were employed to analyze the data and test the hypotheses. According to the results, the independence of the audit committee members and the proportion of non-executive board members have an indirect effect on the cost of equity. Specifically, an increase in the number of independent members or non-executive board members leads to a decrease in the cost of equity (and vice versa). Furthermore, when information asymmetry is introduced as a moderating variable, the proportion of non-executive board members and the independence of audit committee members continue to have an indirect effect on the cost of equity, while information asymmetry has a direct effect on the cost of equity.

Keywords: Qualitative characteristics of the audit committee, audit committee size, audit committee independence, audit committee expertise, proportion of non-executive board members, cost of equity, information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Ghahremanizahraie, Mohammadarian, The Impact of Qualitative Characteristics of the Audit Committee and the Proportion of Non-Executive Board Members on the Cost of Equity (November 02, 2020).
Proceedings of the MACONF Conference, Middle East Accounting Conference 2020, Civilica, Paper Code: maconf-04480958
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5315602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5315602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
G Akerlof , M Spence , J Stiglitz
Markets with Asymmetric Information Posted: 1970
A Alzeban , D Gwilliam
Factors affecting the internal audit effectiveness: A survey of the Saudi public sector
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 74 - 86 Posted: 2014
R Baghumian , S Naqdi
The impact of corporate governance mechanisms on the level of voluntary disclosure in the annual reports of companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange
Accounting Knowledge Journal , volume 5 , issue 16 , p. 119 - 136 Posted: 2014
A Bazrafshan , R Hejazi , A Rahmani , S Bastani
Meta-analysis of audit committee independence and financial reporting quality
Management Accounting Quarterly , volume 8 , issue 25 , p. 101 - 117 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies