Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AI Determinants of Success and Failure: The Case of Financial Statements

66 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2025

Marcelo Farr

Universidad Adolfo Ibanez

William C. Johnson

University of Massachusetts Lowell - The Robert J. Manning School of Business

Ariel J. Markelevich

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Alexis Montecinos

Sawyer Business School - Suffolk University

Date Written: June 23, 2025

Abstract

We examine the ability of artificial intelligence (AI) to read and correctly report data from financial statements and study the determinants of AI success and failure. Using a large language model (LLM), we show AI makes fewer mistakes extracting information for smaller firms, firms with less complex financial statements, firms with fewer operating segments, and when given annual reports with HTML or XBRL formatting. We also find that AI makes fewer mistakes extracting data from the main financial statements and in more recent filings, suggesting that firms are making their filings easier to parse electronically over time. We address misspecifications resulting from AI abstention and find quantitatively similar results. In addition, we show that hallucination rates are well under 2%. Since data entry into an LLM is often the first step of using AI for financial applications, our paper has broad implications for utilizing AI with financial and accounting data.

Keywords: AI, Artificial Intelligence, Financial Statements, LLM, Large Language Model

JEL Classification: G14, G1, M41

Suggested Citation:

Farr, Marcelo and Johnson, William C. and Markelevich, Ariel J. and Montecinos, Alexis, AI Determinants of Success and Failure: The Case of Financial Statements (June 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5316518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5316518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Abdelhay , S Haider , H M Hazaimeh , M El-Bannany , A Marie , N Mansour , Bujosa , L M Vadell
The Impact of Generative AI (ChatGPT) on the HR Functions Related Hiring Process
Artificial Intelligence, Digitalization and Regulation. Contributions to Management Science Posted: 2024
David Aboody
Studies on Recognition, Measurement, and Disclosure Issues in Accounting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Muhammad Achakzai , Peng Atif Khan , Juan
Using maching learning Meta-Classifiers to detect financial frauds
Finance Research Letters , volume 48 Posted: 2022
Anwer S Ahmed , Emre Kilic , Gerald J Lobo
Does Recognition versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
411,549
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies