Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accounting Information Quality on the Cost of Equity Capital of Companies

National Conference on New Approaches in Management, Economics, and Accounting, ACA-7018.

10 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

Mohammadarian Ghahremanizahraie

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 02, 2019

Abstract

The present research examines the impact of accounting information quality on the cost of equity capital for companies. Discretionary accruals are considered as a criterion for the cost of equity capital. CAPM is used as an indicator of accounting information quality. The study's time frame covers a 5-year period from the beginning of 2012 to the end of 2016 (1391-1395 in the Persian calendar), with the research sample consisting of 31 companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange. Multivariate regressions were utilized for statistical analyses, and control variables (beta coefficient, asset ratio [net profit to total assets], and operating profit to total assets) were included in the models. Based on the tests conducted, there is a significant indirect relationship between accounting information quality and the cost of equity capital.

Suggested Citation:

Ghahremanizahraie, Mohammadarian, The Impact of Accounting Information Quality on the Cost of Equity Capital of Companies (June 02, 2019).
National Conference on New Approaches in Management, Economics, and Accounting, ACA-7018.
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5317244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5317244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
A Ahmadpour , S Raskhi , Nasiri Qal'eh Seri , Z
The Effect of Information Quality on Liquidity Risk
Journal of Accounting and Management Auditing , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 15 - 31 Posted: 2011
H Khaleghi Moghadam , A Khalegh
Corporate Transparency in Iran and Its Influencing Factors , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2012
R Raei , A Talangi
Advanced Investment Management Posted: 2013
A Rasaian , V Hosseini
The Relationship Between Accrual Quality and Cost of Capital in Iran
Journal of Accounting and Auditing Reviews , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
170
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies