Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Investors Perceive Firms' Hiring of Local CEOs? Evidence from the Cost of Equity Capital

The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025 Last revised: 26 Jun 2025

Jiwoo Seo

Tarleton State University

Wenhong Ding

NEOMA Business School

Yun Ke

University of Texas at El Paso - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Zhenyang Shi

BI Norwegian Business School

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

According to Yonker (2017a), the U.S. executive labor market shows a striking "hiring home bias" in that firms are more likely to hire local CEOs (i.e., CEOs from their own states). We explore how investors perceive such hiring practices by examining whether they demand different costs of equity capital from firms led by local versus non-local CEOs. Our empirical evidence suggests that, on average, investors perceive hiring local CEOs positively by demanding lower costs of equity capital. The finding holds up to a battery of robustness tests. Cross-sectional tests show that the effect is more pronounced in firms that are more locally based, when firms potentially receive more local monitoring, when firms issue more earnings forecasts, and when firms have strong corporate governance. In addition, the level of social capital in the state where a firm is located attenuates the negative relation. Overall, we find evidence consistent with the notion that capital market participants price CEOs' geographic characteristics and provide implications to the boards of directors on CEO-firm matches.

Keywords: home bias, labor market friction, cost of equity capital

JEL Classification: J23, J24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Seo, Jiwoo and Ding, Wenhong and Ke, Yun and Shi, Zhenyang, How do Investors Perceive Firms' Hiring of Local CEOs? Evidence from the Cost of Equity Capital (November 30, 2023). The British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5317165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5317165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
S Adra , Y Gao , J.-M Kuo
The triumph of a local focus in troubled times -CLS Blue Sky Blog Posted: 2021
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber , T Tsoulouhas
Are outsiders handicapped in CEO successions
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 619 - 644 Posted: 2006
H Ashbaugh , D W Collins , R Lafond
Corporate governance and the cost of equity capital
Emory, University of Iowa. Retrieved on January , volume 26 , p. 329 - 340 Posted: 2004
S P Baginski , K C Rakow
Management earnings forecast disclosure policy and the cost of equity capital
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , p. 279 - 321 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies