Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When IR Meets AI: The Impact of Generative AI on Corporate Information Environments

67 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2025 Last revised: 8 Aug 2025

Ning Jia

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Da Xu

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Yuwen Zhang

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of generative AI on corporate information environments, focusing on firms with investor relations (IR) programs. It is motivated by the observation that IR officers are increasingly using generative AI to enhance external communications. Following ChatGPT’s release in November 2022, firms with IR programs significantly improve their information environments relative to firms without IR programs. The effect strengthens when IR officers are more AI-savvy and when they have shorter tenure, and it is concentrated in firms with lower institutional ownership. The improvements stem primarily from enhanced disclosures and communications and accelerated market assimilation of disclosed information. The improvements do not stem from traditional channels such as management earnings forecast or press releases, nor do they lead to enhanced analyst forecasts or higher institutional ownership; they primarily benefit retail investors. The improvements are concentrated in the dissemination of good news, amplifying the asymmetric withholding of bad news by IR firms. We further confirm an increased likelihood that IR firms use GAI in drafting conference call scripts. Finally, we find no significant change in the number of IR officers employed following the release of ChatGPT, suggesting that generative AI complements rather than replaces human capital in this context. 

Keywords: generative AI, ChatGPT, investor relations, information environment, disclosure, bad news withholding

JEL Classification: D80, M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Ning and Li, Ningzhong and Xu, Da and Zhang, Yuwen, When IR Meets AI: The Impact of Generative AI on Corporate Information Environments (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5317057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5317057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
D Acemoglu
The simple macroeconomics of AI
Economic Policy , volume 40 , p. 13 - 58 Posted: 2025
M Alavi , G Westerman
How generative AI will transform knowledge work
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2023
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
H Alkaissi , S Mcfarlane
Artificial hallucinations in ChatGPT: Implications in scientific writing
Cureus , volume 15 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
239,255
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies