Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Language Models in the Firm and Labor Income Share

54 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2025

Chunqiang Zhang

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Wanqiang Ye

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Yuan Meng

Anhui University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

In the context of the rapid development of global artificial intelligence technology and profound changes in the labor market, it is of great significance to study the income distribution problem from the perspective of the firm application of Large Language Models (LLMs). This paper adopts two-way fixed effects difference-indifferences (TWFEDD) model to explore the impact and mechanism of firm application of LLMs on labor income share. The results of the study find that the application of LLMs by firms significantly increases their labor income share. Mechanism analysis shows that the upgrading of human capital structure brought about by the application of LLMs and the "human-machine synergy" effect are the key paths to increase the labor income share. Heterogeneity analysis shows that this effect is more significant in firms with low financing constraints, technology-intensive industries, industries with high competition, firms with self-developed LLMs, and firms that apply LLMs to customer service. This study explores the influence of the application of LLMs in firms on three key aspects: the human capital structure, human-machine synergy, and labor income share. Furthermore, it seeks to offer crucial insights to facilitate economic transformation and upgrading, as well as to drive high-quality development.

Keywords: Large Language Models, human capital structure, human-machine synergy, labor income share Large Language Models, human capital structure, human-machine synergy, labor income share

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Chunqiang and Ye, Wanqiang and Meng, Yuan, Large Language Models in the Firm and Labor Income Share (June 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5318992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5318992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
the Race between Man and Machine : Implications of Technology for Growth , Factor Shares , and Employment
AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
F Alvaredo , A B Atkinson , T Piketty , E Saez
the Top 1 Percent in International and Historical Perspective
journal of economic PERSPECTIVES , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2013
D H Autor , D Dorn
The Growth of Low-Skill Service Jobs and the Polarization of the US Labor Market
AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW , volume 103 , issue 5 , p. 1553 - 1597 Posted: 2013
A Blair-Stanek , N Holzenberger , B Van Durme ; Boyacı , T , C Canyakmaz , F De Véricourt
Human and Machine: the Impact of Machine Input on Decision Making Under Cognitive Limitations
MANAGEMENT SCIENCE , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 1258 - 1275 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
179
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies