Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predictive Ability of Earnings and Cash Flows for Future Cash Flows: Evidence from Japan

Posted: 25 Jun 2025 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Toshiki Shimizu

Hitotsubashi University - Graduate School of Commerce and Management

Date Written: September 11, 2025

Abstract

In a sample of Japanese listed firms, this study examines whether accrual-based earnings are superior to operating cash flows in predicting future operating cash flows. Taking advantage of the multi-step income presentations required under Japanese GAAP, I compare the predictive ability of three GAAP earnings-operating income, ordinary income, and net income-against that of operating cash flows. The results indicate that GAAP earnings outperform operating cash flows. Notably, operating income consistently demonstrates the highest predictive ability among earnings measures. Furthermore, these findings remain robust after controlling for firm-level heterogeneity. This outcome aligns with the view of accounting standard setters that GAAP earnings provide incremental information for predicting future cash flows.

Keywords: Earnings, Operating cash flows, multi-step income, Cash flows forecasts, Japan

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G17, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Shimizu, Toshiki, Predictive Ability of Earnings and Cash Flows for Future Cash Flows: Evidence from Japan (September 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5318843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5318843
 Not Available for Download
7 References
Asbj ; Asbj Ball , R , V Nikolaev
The Discussion Paper "Conceptual Framework of Financial Accounting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 73 , issue 1 Posted: 2006
T Ebihara
The Relationships between Revenue and Expense Matching, Earnings Volatility, and the Ability to Predict Future Cash Flow
The Journal of Musashi University , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 142 Posted: 2009
Fasb
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
Posted: 2010
Iasb
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies