Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Restatement Risk to Reporting Rigor: Evidence from the SEC's Clawback Mandate

60 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2025

Michael Dambra

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Andrea Pawliczek

University of Colorado at Boulder

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

In October 2022, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted Exchange Rule 10D-1 requiring all firms listed on major stock exchanges to have a written policy in place to recover compensation awarded to executive officers in the event of an accounting restatement (clawback provision). We examine whether firms respond to the clawback mandate by altering their investments in the financial reporting function. Consistent with a mandatory compensation clawback encouraging firms to improve the financial reporting function to limit the potential for restatements, we find that firms increase their hiring of employees in accounting positions in the immediate aftermath of the SEC’s rule adoption. We also find evidence that clawback-adopting firms pay higher audit fees and that earnings are announced on a timelier basis in the initial period in which compensation will be eligible for a clawback. In contrast to concerns regarding clawbacks, we do not observe evidence of an increase in executive compensation or a shift away from performance-based executive pay for new adopters. In fact, we find some evidence that firms newly subject to a mandatory clawback increase the number performance metrics in CEO compensation contracts that require a clawback in the event of a restatement. Consistent with stakeholder recognition of an improvement in the quality of reported numbers, we find that firms experience an increase in analyst coverage following mandatory clawback rule adoption.

Keywords: clawback, financial reporting, CEO compensation, performance metrics JEL Classification: M12, M41, M52

JEL Classification: M48, M41, M12, J33, G38, G34

Suggested Citation:

Dambra, Michael and Schonberger, Bryce and Pawliczek, Andrea, From Restatement Risk to Reporting Rigor: Evidence from the SEC's Clawback Mandate (June 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5320393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5320393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
L Aguilar
The Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance (blog) Posted: 2015-07-01
B Asante-Appiah , D S Sharma
Determinants and Consequences of the Severity of Executive Compensation Clawbacks*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 2409 - 2455 Posted: 2022
P Atkins
Statement by Chair Atkins on the Upcoming Executive Compensation Roundtable Posted: 2025-05-18
P C Austin
An Introduction to Propensity Score Methods for Reducing the Effects of Confounding in Observational Studies
Multivariate Behavioral Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 424 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
567
RANK
545,411
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies