Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Congruent Photographs and Text in Annual Reports

58 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2025

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Ruikai Ji

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Xueming Luo

Temple University - Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

We investigate management's strategic use of photographs and text in annual reports. Communications research shows that when text and adjacent photographs share similar meanings (are congruent), they improve the understanding and memorability of the focal context. By employing the deep-learning Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-Training (BLIP) model to measure photo-text congruence, we document that firms that are performing poorly tend to enhance the photo-text congruence in annual reports, suggesting an emphasis on favorable data. This strategy appears to mitigate the negative impact brought by the bad performance, as evidenced by higher shareholder supporting rates for director elections and say-on-pay proposals at the next annual meeting. The results are more significant when these poorly performing firms have low active institutional ownership or higher operating, especially R&D, expenses. Meanwhile, the high photo-text congruence is not correlated with better future firm performance. Our findings suggest that while enhancing photo-text congruence of favorable data can benefit management, it can convey more comprehensive yet less valuable data that distracts shareholders.

Keywords: Strategic disclosure, Shareholder votes, Information processing costs, Unstructured data

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G14, G17, D83

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Ji, Ruikai and Luo, Xueming, Congruent Photographs and Text in Annual Reports (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5321073 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5321073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , N R Prabhala
The power of shareholder votes: Evidence from uncontested director elections
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 134 - 153 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , I D Gow , D F Larcker
The efficacy of shareholder voting: Evidence from equity compensation plans
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 909 - 950 Posted: 2013
H S Asay , R Libby , K Rennekamp
Firm performance, reporting goals, and language choices in narrative disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 380 - 398 Posted: 2018
L Bach , D Metzger
How close are close shareholder votes?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 3183 - 3214 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
321,382
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies