Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Director Labour Market Penalise Gender Equally in the Wake of Accounting Scandals?

44 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2025

Yasser Eliwa

Loughborough University - Loughborough Business School

Noel O'Sullivan

Loughborough University - School of Business and Economics

Ahmed Saleh

Brunel University London

Abstract

This study investigates whether the director labour market in the UK penalises non-executive directors for failures in their monitoring responsibilities and whether gender moderates the severity of such penalties. Using a hand-collected sample of 56 UK-listed firms involved in accounting scandals between 1993 and 2018, we track the board careers of implicated audit committee members over a five-year period. We find that directors associated with scandals experience significant declines in both the number and quality of subsequent board appointments. Importantly, the labour market penalties are more severe for female directors, highlighting a persistent gender disparity in how accountability is assessed post-scandal. These findings contribute to the literature on director accountability, gender diversity, and board governance by combining agency and resource dependence perspectives in a UK setting. From a policy perspective, the results raise concerns about the equity of governance reforms that rely heavily on audit committee oversight and promote gender diversity, yet may expose female directors to greater reputational and career risks in the event of corporate failures.

Keywords: Accounting scandals, director labour market, audit committee, female directors, gender bias, corporate governance.

Suggested Citation:

Eliwa, Yasser and O'Sullivan, Noel and Saleh, Ahmed, Does the Director Labour Market Penalise Gender Equally in the Wake of Accounting Scandals?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5325171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5325171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
170
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies