Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Larger Reporting Networks Yield Benefits from Information Network Effects?

54 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2025

Donal Byard

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Anna Bergman Brown

Clarkson University

Jangwon Suh

CUNY Queens College

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Yakun Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen - School of Management and Economics; Shenzhen Finance Institute

Date Written: March 10, 2025

Abstract

This study explores whether an increase in the size of firms' reporting networks (the number of industry peer firms reporting in comparable standards) improves the quality of analysts' information environments for firms. As our setting, we exploit the effect of the 2005 mandatory adoption of IFRS around the world on U.S. firms, as IFRS adoption did not directly affect U.S. firms but increased the size of their reporting networks. We document that mandatory IFRS adoption is associated with a significantly larger improvement in the quality of analysts' information environment-a larger decrease in analysts' absolute forecast errors and dispersionfor U.S. firms with relatively few domestic industry peers than for other U.S. firms. Further, we show that (1) analysts' research reports for U.S. firms with few domestic peers have a larger increase in the frequency with which they mention IFRS-adopting E.U. industry peer firms, and (2) this is driven by E.U. firms based in countries that concurrently increased accounting enforcement. Our results provide evidence that, by increasing the size of firms' reporting networks, mandatory reporting regulations that increase reporting comparability can result in positive information externalities from information network effects.

Keywords: Information network effects, positive information externalities, financial reporting comparability JEL Classification: K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Byard, Donal and Brown, Anna Bergman and Suh, Jangwon and Darrough, Masako N. and Wang, Yakun, Do Larger Reporting Networks Yield Benefits from Information Network Effects? (March 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5325774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5325774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 Posted: 2008
S Baginski
Intraindustry information transfer associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 196 - 216 Posted: 1987
S Baginski , L Hinson
Cost of capital free-riders
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1291 - 1313 Posted: 2016
R Barefield , E Comiskey
The association of forecast error with other risk measures
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 2 , p. 315 - 325 Posted: 1975
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
RANK
864,457
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies