Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Agency Theory's Role in Stock Price Crashes During the COVID-19 Crisis

19 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2025

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Neophytos Lambertides

Cyprus University of Technology

Marina Magidou

Open University of Cyprus

Date Written: June 26, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether agency theory can explain stock price crashes in U.S. firms. We construct two novel multidimensional indices of managerial opportunism that combine a broad set of agency-related variables associated with bad news hoarding. Using the COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment, we test whether crisis-induced survival pressures amplify the relation between agency problems and the release of previously withheld bad news that subsequently triggers crashes. Contrary to expectations, we find no significant association between our agency-based indices and future crashes. These findings challenge agency-based explanations for crash risk, underscoring the need for research into alternative mechanisms.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Stock Price Crash Risk, Financial Reporting Opacity, Managerial Incentives, Earnings Management, COVID-19 Pandemic

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Lambertides, Neophytos and Magidou, Marina, Revisiting Agency Theory's Role in Stock Price Crashes During the COVID-19 Crisis (June 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5328809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5328809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Al Mamun , B Balachandran , H N Duong
Powerful CEOs and stock price crash risk
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 62 Posted: 2020
P C Andreou , N Lambertides , M Magidou
A critique of the agency theory viewpoint of stock price crash risk: The opacity and overinvestment channels
British Journal of Management , volume 34 , p. 2158 - 2185 Posted: 2023
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
E Benmelech , E Kandel , P Veronesi
Stock-based compensation and CEO (dis)incentives
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 1769 - 1820 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
191
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies