Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mafia Ties and Financial Reporting Quality Spillovers: Evidence from Private Firms in Italy

36 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2025

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Nicola Pecchiari

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how firms with no connections to Mafia organizations respond to the tax avoidance and earnings management practices of mafia-connected peers, focusing on both industry and geographic spillovers. While prior research has documented the financial practices of mafiaconnected firms, little is known about how their presence influences otherwise "clean" firms. We leverage a proprietary dataset from the Italian Internal Intelligence and Security Agency (AISI), which records individuals under investigation for mafia-related crimes. Using a large sample of private firms in the Lombardy region from 2006 to 2013, we examine how exposure to mafiaconnected peers-measured at the industry and geographic levels-affects firms' tax avoidance and financial reporting choices. We find that greater mafia presence is associated with lower effective tax rates among unconnected peers. Geographic proximity to mafia-connected firms is associated with increased tax-related restatements and income-decreasing abnormal accruals. We also document that unconnected firms in high-crime provinces show stronger tax avoidance responses, suggesting that broader criminal exposure amplifies the influence of mafia-connected peers.

Keywords: connections to organized crime, spillover, criminal investigations, tax avoidance, earnings management, private firms, Italian setting G31, G32, G38, K42, K49

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G38, K42, K49

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Pecchiari, Nicola, Mafia Ties and Financial Reporting Quality Spillovers: Evidence from Private Firms in Italy (June 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5329014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5329014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M D Amore , O Garofalo , A Minichilli
Gender interactions within the family firm
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1083 - 1097 Posted: 2014
P A Bianchi
Auditors' joint engagements and audit quality: Evidence from Italian private companies
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 1533 - 1577 Posted: 2018
P A Bianchi , M Causholli , M Minutti-Meza , V Sulcaj
Social networks analysis in accounting and finance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 577 - 623 Posted: 2023
P A Bianchi , D Falsetta , M Minutti-Meza , E Weisbrod
Joint audit engagements and client tax avoidance: Evidence from the Italian statutory audit regime
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 58 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies