Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards: New Thinking

37 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2025

Renee B. Adams

University of Oxford; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 09, 2025

Abstract

In the face of global challenges, corporate boards may need to think differently. In this review, I explore how the finance literature addresses the challenges boards face. I focus on a key recent challenge: how boards navigate shifting expectations about their objectives beyond shareholder value. I highlight that the literatures on boards' stakeholder objectives and diversity overlap. This raises interesting, and important, questions about how boards can develop "new thinking" more generally. Much research remains to be done in this area. To rise to the challenge, however, finance academia may also need to think differently. Using data that measures how individual directors think, I illustrate that many factors may influence how directors think, including selection. Questioning accepted approaches and assumptions may help finance continue to generate influential research on boards.

Keywords: Mindset, Diversity, Stakeholder, Value, Selection, Board of Directors

Declaration of Interest

I confirm I defended my research from attempts to influence it in ways I perceived to be biased.

JEL Classification: G34, G38, J15, J16, D83

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Renée B., Corporate Boards: New Thinking (March 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5329648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5329648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 621 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
R B Adams
Asking Directors About Their Dual Roles. Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper. Available at SSRN Posted: 2009
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the Boardroom and Their Impact on Governance and Performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 942 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Adams , D Ferreira
Moderation in Groups: Evidence from Betting on Ice Break-Ups in Alaska
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 773 , p. 882 - 913 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
RANK
508,348
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies