Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating the Broken Windows Theory and Forensic Accounting: A New Framework for Enhancing Fraud Prevention in the Digital Age

22 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2025 Last revised: 9 Jul 2025

Samuel F. Johnson-Rokosu

University of Lagos - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 30, 2025

Abstract

This research introduces the Unified Fraud Prevention Model (UFPM), a new framework that integrates the Broken Windows theory and forensic accounting techniques to improve the prevention of fraud in the digital age. The study, which looked at four different case studies covering manufacturing, financial services, tax administration and banking-showed that the UFPM is effective in detecting and preventing fraud. The model emphasizes early detection of small financial irregularities ('broken windows') in order to prevent the fraud from escalating, using advanced forensic accounting techniques and methods such as data mining, anomaly detection and predictive modelling. The findings show that a proactive approach, focusing on early detection and continuous monitoring, has significantly improved fraud prevention performance. The UFPM not only helps to cushion financial losses, but also fosters a culture of compliance and self-confidence. This research contributes to this field by providing a practical and scalable model for fraud prevention which addresses both environmental and situational factors in the digital environment. It stresses the importance of integrating cross sectional and technology-based approaches for effective fraud prevention. The study also looks at the impact of the UFPM on policy development and organizational practice, and stresses the need to adapt constantly to technological progress.

Keywords: Unified Fraud Prevention Model, Broken Windows Theory, Forensic Accounting, Fraud Prevention, Digital Age

Suggested Citation:

Johnson-Rokosu, Samuel F., Integrating the Broken Windows Theory and Forensic Accounting: A New Framework for Enhancing Fraud Prevention in the Digital Age (June 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5335491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5335491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
W S Albrecht , C C Albrecht , C O Albrecht , M F Zimbelmann
Examination of fraud Posted: 1912
P J Ansfield
Broken windows in the Bronx: Policing the fine lines between disorder and crime
Criminology & Public Policy , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 80 Posted: 2020
G Beechey-Newman , D Wallace
Forensic accounting: How to investigate financial fraud Posted: 2008
A Bonrath , M Eulerich
Internal auditing's role in preventing and detecting fraud: An empirical analysis
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies