Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Effect of Foreign Investment Inflows on Capital Market Performance in Nigeria

DOI: 10.55573/IJAFB.095528

25 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

AUWALU MUAZU

Nasarawa State University, Keffi Nasarawa State Nigeria

Ismaila Olotu Abdullahi

Nasarawa State University, Keffi Nasarawa State Nigeria

ABDULKARIM SHUIBU ALHASSAN

Nasarawa State University, Keffi Nasarawa State Nigeria

Date Written: June 30, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the relevance of disaggregate financial information disclosure suggested by standard setters in promoting decision usefulness of financial information by exploring the effect of foreign investment inflows on capital market performance in Nigeria.

Keywords: Foreign Capital Inflows, Decision Usefulness of Disaggregate Financial Information, Disaggregate Disclosure, Capital Market Performance

Declaration of Interest

The authors declared that there is no any personal or financial relationship with other people or organizations that may have or could be perceived to have influenced this study.

Ethics Approval

The authors followed all the necessary established standards of operations and published this paper which is empirical based study. It is not a case study based paper that required seeking for approval in respect of ethical consideration as the case may be in the case study research.

Funder Statement

The authors of this research study do not received any funding or grant. It was absolutely funded by the authors.

Suggested Citation:

MUAZU, AUWALU and Abdullahi, Ismaila Olotu and ALHASSAN, ABDULKARIM SHUIBU,

Effect of Foreign Investment Inflows on Capital Market Performance in Nigeria

(June 30, 2024). DOI: 10.55573/IJAFB.095528, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5335761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5335761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
E J A Abakah , M K Abakah
Foreign exchange reserve and its impact on stock market: Evidence from Ghana
Journal of Finance and Economic , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 136 - 141 Posted: 2016
I A Acha , S O Akpan
Capital market performance and economic growth in Nigeria
Nobel International Journal of Economics and Finance Research , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 10 - 18 Posted: 2019
A M Adam , G Tweneboah
Foreign direct investment and stock market development: Ghana's Evidence
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 26 , p. 178 - 185 Posted: 2009
A B Adefunke , J O Ojeaga
Value relevance of accounting information and share price in Nigeria stock exchange
International Journal of Management Studies , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 34 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies