Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of SEC Reporting Changes on Information Acquisition and Market Dynamics: Evidence from Foreign Cross-Listed Firms

67 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Edward Sul

George Washington University

Date Written: June 12, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines how a change in disclosure regulation influences investors' information acquisition and trading across multiple markets. We leverage the 2007 elimination of the Form 20-F reconciliation requirement for cross-listed firms that prepare financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Using a difference-indifferences research design, we show that investors acquire fewer Form 20-Fs of IFRS-reporting cross-listed firms when these forms are not filed in a timely manner relative to the home-country earnings announcement. We also find an increased acquisition of earnings-specific 6-Ks, indicating a shift in investor attention from delayed and unreconciled 20-Fs to more timely earnings releases in the home country. Furthermore, we find that ADR market reactions to local earnings announcements increase after the deregulation, especially for firms with strong home-country institutions. In addition, we find that the deregulation increases return co-movement between the US ADR market and the home-country stock market for IFRS filers' shares. Our results bring novel insights regarding the cross-market impact of the disclosure regulation change.

Keywords: ADR, 20-F, Information Acquisition, Cross-Listing, Disclosure Regulation, Market Integration

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Pinto, Jedson and Sul, Edward, The Impact of SEC Reporting Changes on Information Acquisition and Market Dynamics: Evidence from Foreign Cross-Listed Firms (June 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5336765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5336765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler
Theory, research design assumptions, and causal inferences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 366 - 373 Posted: 2018
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
W H Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
584,078
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies