Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Structure and Debt Contract Design

50 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2025

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Jinping Zhang

Fudan University - School of Management; Business School, National University of Singapore

Date Written: December 10, 2024

Abstract

In this study, we examine the impact of cost structure on the design of covenant package in debt contracts. We find that borrowing firms with more elastic cost structures obtain more bank loans. However, the loans they obtain include more restrictive performance covenants. Further, the positive impact on performance covenant restrictiveness is (1) stronger when firms are riskier and have fewer assets that can be pledged as collaterals to lenders and (2) weaker when more lenders are involved in the loan and thus bear higher renegotiation costs upon covenant violation. We address the endogeneity concern by conducting Difference-in-Differences analyses based on the state-level adoption of wrongful discharge laws and Propensity Score Matching analyses. In sum, these findings suggest that elastic cost structures increase lenders' willingness to provide loans but at the same time elevate their requirement for more restrictive debt contracts in order to monitor borrowing firms continuously ex post.

Keywords: cost elasticity, bank access, debt covenant design, performance covenant, ex post monitoring tool, Cost structure

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rong and Zhang, Jinping, Cost Structure and Debt Contract Design (December 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5337554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5337554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D Aboody , S Levi , D Weiss
Managerial incentives, options, and cost-structure choices
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 422 - 451 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
RANK
833,930
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies