Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Labor in the Virtuous Circle of Economic Development

81 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Yi Chen

University of Florida

Kyoungwon Kim

University of Florida

Kevin Lee

University of Florida

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

How and how much does accounting contribute to aggregate economic welfare? While these questions are clearly important, they have not been thoroughly addressed by archival studies because accounting is ubiquitous, making it difficult to identify research settings with informative comparisons, and because accounting institutions operate in conjunction with many other mutually complementary and coevolved economic institutions, making it difficult to causally attribute economic outcomes to any particular institution. In this study, we use the setting of the American industrial revolution from 1850 to 1930 to provide new empirical evidence on the welfare effects of accounting, specifically of specialist accounting labor. Our setting is attractive because it was a period when specialist accounting labor went from extremely scarce to common while, at the same time, the economy transformed from agrarian to a far more productive industrial economy. We find evidence of a virtuous circle at the county level in which specialist accounting labor was associated with economic development and economic development was associated with growth in the supply of specialist accountants. We do not argue that accounting labor is a mono-cause of economic growth. Rather, our evidence suggests it was part of a cluster of complementary growth-promoting institutions including large industrial firms, managerial hierarchies, education systems, and research investment. The local share of accounting labor is a strong predictor of economic development relative to other institutions. Our evidence suggests that specialist accountants, especially cost accountants working inside of industrial firms, were essential enablers of economic development.

Keywords: American Industrial Revolution, Accounting Labor, Institutional Economics, Industrial Organization, Evolutionary Theory of Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yi and Kim, Kyoungwon and Lee, Kevin and Madsen, Paul E., Accounting Labor in the Virtuous Circle of Economic Development (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5337966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5337966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty Posted: 2012
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, Evolution, and Economic Theory
J. Polit. Econ , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
C E Allen
The growth of accounting instruction since 1900
Account. Rev , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 1927
R C Allen
The British Industrial Revolution in Global Perspective Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
RANK
702,914
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies