Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Recent Literature on Seasoned Equity Offerings (SEO)

44 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Shashwat Agrawal

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: October 12, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides a systematic review of the literature on Seasoned Equity Offerings (SEO) published in top-tier Accounting and Finance journals from 2012 to 2022. In this study I synthesize findings from 31 research articles. I categorize the papers into nine key themes, namely, information asymmetry and costs, regulation changes, timing of issuance, management disclosure, corporate governance, earnings management, competitive space and rivals, alternatives to SEO, and innovative techniques. The review highlights the role of information asymmetry in shaping SEO outcomes, the impact of regulatory changes on capital-raising behavior, and the strategic timing of equity issuance influenced by market conditions. Additionally, the paper explores corporate governance's role in mitigating agency costs and the implications of earnings management around SEO events. By integrating empirical findings, this review offers valuable insights for academics, while identifying gaps for future research.

Keywords: Seasoned Equity Offerings, SEO, Equity Issuance, Information Asymmetry, Signaling, Pecking Order

JEL Classification: G14, G32, G30, G38, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Shashwat, A Review of Recent Literature on Seasoned Equity Offerings (SEO) (October 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5338577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5338577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Ashiq Ali , Sandy Klasa , Eric Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Aydogan Altı , Johan Sulaeman
When do high stock returns trigger equity issues?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , p. 61 - 87 Posted: 2012
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
Market timing and capital structure
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
Malcolm Baker , Yuhai Xuan
Under new management: Equity issues and the attribution of past returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 66 - 78 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
649,230
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies