Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Versus Cash Flows in Equity Valuation: Evidence From the COVID-19 Crisis

Accepted for Publication in Advances in Accounting

58 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Junwoo Kim

Oakland University

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: July 03, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the role of earnings and cash flows in equity valuation under severe uncertainty about firm fundamentals. Using the COVID-19 pandemic as an exogenous shock that exacerbates fundamental uncertainty, we find that severe uncertainty leads investors to increase the valuation weight on cash flows and reduce the valuation weight on earnings. Consequently, while net earnings dominate operating cash flows in explaining the cross-section of stock returns during the pre-pandemic period, operating cash flows outperform net earnings during the pandemic period. We also find that the decrease in the value relevance of earnings is attributable to the decline in the valuation weight on the accrual component of earnings. Further analyses reveal that the dominance of cash flows over earnings is less pronounced for operating earnings than for net earnings and that the valuation weight on cash flows increases with ex-ante exposure to the pandemic shock and with the level of financial inflexibility. Moreover, we find that while analysts' earnings forecasts become less accurate and more dispersed during the pandemic period, their cash flow forecasts do not exhibit significant changes in forecast accuracy or dispersion over the same period. Our evidence highlights the relative importance of cash flows versus earnings under severe uncertainty about firms' prospects.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, earnings, operating cash flows, accruals, fundamental uncertainty, analysts' forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Kim, Junwoo and Lee, Jay Junghun, Earnings Versus Cash Flows in Equity Valuation: Evidence From the COVID-19 Crisis (July 03, 2025). Accepted for Publication in Advances in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5338627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5338627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
327
RANK
730,194
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies