Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‫صعوبات تطبيق موازنة البرامج والاداء في وزارة المالية الفلسطينية
Difficulties in Implementing Program and Performance Budgeting in the Palestinian Ministry of Finance


Posted: 10 Jul 2025

Dr. Monther Eldaia

Al-Aqsa University

Date Written: February 05, 2025

Abstract

The study aimed to identify the challenges faced by the Palestinian Ministry of Finance in implementing the program and performance budgeting system. To achieve the objectives of the study and test its hypotheses, the descriptive-analytical approach was adopted. The study relied on both primary and secondary data, and a questionnaire tailored to the topic was designed and distributed to the study population. The results of the questionnaire were processed and analyzed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS). The study reached several findings, most notably that the Palestinian Ministry of Finance faces technological, financial, and administrative challenges during the implementation of program and performance budgeting. These challenges include the lack of modern and advanced technological systems for efficient budget implementation, limited integration between accounting and financial systems, which hinders the accurate and timely flow of information, insufficient training for employees on how to use available technological.

Note: Downloadable document is in Arabic.

Keywords: Budgeting, Performance, Ministry of Finance

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Suggested Citation:

Eldaia, Dr. Monther, ‫صعوبات تطبيق موازنة البرامج والاداء في وزارة المالية الفلسطينية
Difficulties in Implementing Program and Performance Budgeting in the Palestinian Ministry of Finance

(February 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5341010
 Not Available for Download
3 References
Alain , Melegy
Program and Performance Budgeting System in Public Sector Organizations: An (Analytical Study in Saudi Arabian Context Posted: 2017
Others Erhan
Performance-based Budget Arrangements، The Implementation Process and Advancement in Turkey Posted: 2015
Ebsco Www , Com،
Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies