Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peak Scandal: An Analysis of Financial Crime in the United Kingdom, 1827–2015

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

21 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 09, 2025

Abstract

The chapter examines the history of financial crime. It sets out a methodology utilising newspaper archives to quantify the incidence of different types of financial crime over a long historical period. Using the United Kingdom as a case study, it highlights trends in financial market manipulations and accounting manipulations, and specific examples of each, focusing on peak occurrences of prospectus fraud, share market manipulations (including insider trading), false balance sheets and false accounting. The chapter then reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the methodology and highlights areas for refinement and further research. In conclusion, the evidence in the chapter suggests that corporate financial crime became a significant problem in the mid-nineteenth century, typically declining thereafter, but then resurging after the 1970s and persisting at high levels until the recent past, suggesting a correlation with laissez faire and market liberalisation.

Keywords: Fraud, scandal, swindle, insider trading, prospectus, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Toms, Steve, Peak Scandal: An Analysis of Financial Crime in the United Kingdom, 1827–2015 (April 09, 2025). Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5344112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5344112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Joint Stock Companies Act 1856, 19 & 20 Vict
Limited Liability Act 1855 , volume 8 Posted: 1845
Theft Act 1968, c.60. Companies Act
Companies Act , volume 48 , issue 6 Posted: 1980
R V Cases , Esdaile
Twycross v Grant (1877) 2 CPD 469 Posted: 1858
J Armitage
Hedge fund star Einhorn fined £7.2m for insider trading Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
229
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies