Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Locking in Talent through Disclosure: Labor Market Competition and Corporate Patent Transparency

58 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Yu Hou

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Miao Liu

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Jiaping Qiu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics; McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Chi Wan

San Diego State University

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates how firms strategically manage patent disclosures to secure key human capital. We find that firms in highly competitive labor markets delay the disclosure of innovations to prevent competitors from identifying and targeting key inventors. However, once disclosure occurs, firms craft more precise and detailed patent filings. By doing so, they not only signal strong intellectual property protections to deter imitation but also effectively tether their inalienable human capital to a clearly defined technological domain. This disclosure strategy raises the barriers to entry for competitors and diminishes the appeal of talent poaching, ultimately leading to reduced inventor mobility. Our findings highlight that firms can effectively transform inalienable human capital into firm-specific intangible capital by strategically managing the timing and quality of patent disclosures.

Keywords: Labor market competition, Inventor mobility, Intellectual property

JEL Classification: O31, J63, D82, L24

Suggested Citation:

Hou, Yu and Liu, Miao and Qiu, Jiaping and Wan, Chi, Locking in Talent through Disclosure: Labor Market Competition and Corporate Patent Transparency (December 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5346256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
The management of innovation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1185 - 1209 Posted: 1994
B N Anand , A Galetovic
Weak property rights and holdup in R&D
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 615 - 642 Posted: 2000
J J Anton , D A Yao
Expropriation and inventions: Appropriable rents in the absence of property rights
American Economic Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 190 - 209 Posted: 1994
J Azar , I Marinescu , M Steinbaum
Labor market concentration
Journal of Human Resources , volume 57 , issue S , p. 167 - S199 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
451,432
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies