Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Superannuation Funds And Australian Corporate Governance

Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper

University of New South Wales Law Journal, Vol 49(1) (forthcoming, 2026)

37 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2025

Tim Bowley

Monash University

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

Superannuation funds' significance was highlighted in 2023 when Australia's largest fund derailed a high-profile takeover transaction. Commentators expressed reservations about funds' increasing power over ASX-listed entities. This article explores the rise of superannuation funds and their corporate governance significance. Data indicates that superannuation funds do not own enough shares to control listed entities. Instead, share ownership is concentrating in the hands of groups of superannuation funds and other institutional investors. In this setting, governance outcomes are determined not by a controlling shareholder but through the interplay between compact groups of investors and corporate management. This phenomenon has not been explored in detail in Australia. This article contributes a conceptual framework for analysing the phenomenon: the 'market for corporate influence'. This article argues that superannuation funds have attributes that make them adept wielders of influence in the market for corporate influence and highlights implications for Australian corporate governance regulation.

Keywords: institutional investors, financial markets, pension funds, shareholders, corporate governance, shareholder activism, shareholder stewardship

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, H55, H75, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bowley, Tim, Superannuation Funds And Australian Corporate Governance (June 01, 2025). Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper, University of New South Wales Law Journal, Vol 49(1) (forthcoming, 2026), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5347512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5347512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Gordon ; Gilson , John Coffee , Darius Palia , ; Cnv Krishnan , Frank Partnoy , Randall Thomas
The Wolf at the Door: The Impact of Hedge Fund Activism on Corporate Governance
The Second Wave of Hedge Fund Activism: The Importance of Reputation, Clout and Expertise , volume 41 , p. 900 - 901 Posted: 2016
Marco Becht
Outsourcing Active Ownership in Japan' (ECGI Finance Working Paper Posted: 2015
About Climate Action 100+
Climate Action , volume 100
For other examples, see Bowley and Hill (n 125) 247-8. Conversely, a lack of local familiarity has been cited as one reason why U.S. hedge fund activists have struggled to
Climate Action , volume 100 , p. 108 - 109 Posted: 2020-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
529
RANK
427,290
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Monash University Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies