Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the SME Promotion Law Curb Trade Credit Exploitation by Listed Companies? — Evidence from a Supply Chain Perspective

20 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

Wanxin FENG

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Haoyu WANG

Xiamen National Accounting Institute

Abstract

From a supply chain perspective, this paper examines whether the implementation of the SME Promotion Law in 2018 effectively curbed the exploitation of trade credit by listed companies at the expense of their SME suppliers. Empirical results show that listed companies with SME suppliers significantly reduced their accounts payable and payment periods after the policy was enacted, indicating a decline in their appropriation of SME credit resources. Mechanism analysis reveals that this effect is mainly driven by heightened litigation risks and increased public scrutiny induced by the law. The policy impact is more pronounced among firms with weaker repayment capacity or lower voluntary payment incentives. Further analysis finds that listed companies responding positively to the policy received more government subsidies, experienced improved profit margins—ultimately fostering a “win-win” outcome between listed companies and SMEs.

Keywords: SME Promotion Law, trade credit exploitation, listed companies, SMEs, Supply chain financing

Suggested Citation:

FENG, Wanxin and WANG, Haoyu, Can the SME Promotion Law Curb Trade Credit Exploitation by Listed Companies? — Evidence from a Supply Chain Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5348037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5348037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M Boghossian , R R Carnes
Mandated Public Disclosure and Trade Credit Payment Practices
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Posted: 2025
Y Chen , T Liu
Bankruptcy judicial reform and corporate trade credit financing
China Economic Review , volume 85 Posted: 2024
R Cressy , C Olofsson
European SME financing: an overview
Small Business Economics , p. 87 - 96 Posted: 1997
A H Meltzer
Mercantile credit, monetary policy, and size of firms
The review of Economics and Statistics , p. 429 - 437 Posted: 1960
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
127
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies