Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effect of Non-Disclosure Agreements: Evidence from Workplace Safety

Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Nick Haocheng Yang

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: December 11, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines whether narrowing the scope of employees' non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) affects whistleblowing to regulators and, ultimately, workplace safety. While broad NDAs deter employees from disclosing adverse information about their employers, recent legislative changes in several U.S. states have restricted their use. Using a difference-indifferences approach, we find that facilities in states enacting NDA-restricting laws experience a significant increase in whistleblower-initiated inspections by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), along with a rise in reported violations, compared to facilities in other states. The effect is more pronounced in industries that heavily rely on NDAs, in financially constrained firms, and in those with higher unionization rates. Following the adoption of narrowed NDAs, facilities subject to whistleblower-initiated inspections exhibit a reduction in employee injuries. Interestingly, facilities within the same companies but located in unaffected states experience an increase in injuries after inspections occur at facilities in the affected states. Overall, our findings suggest that limiting NDAs encourages whistleblowing and improves workplace safety, while also creating negative spillover effects for related facilities in states without such regulatory changes.

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Li, Meng and Yang, Nick Haocheng, The Real Effect of Non-Disclosure Agreements: Evidence from Workplace Safety (December 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5348829
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies