Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Covid-19, Earnings Management and Digital Transformation: Pressures, Motivations And Opportunities Lost

22 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2025

Aolin Leng

Northwestern Polytechnic University (NPU)

Siyuan Shen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic has heightened economic uncertainty, leading to increased pressure on firms and greater incentives to engage in earnings management. This paper aims to clarify how COVID-19 affects enterprises’ earnings management practices. Additionally, as the pandemic has accelerated the adoption of digital transformation to tackle its challenges, this research explores the moderating role of digital transformation in the relationship between COVID-19 and earnings management. Based on data from Chinese A-share listed companies between 2015 and 2022, this paper finds that (1) COVID-19 suppresses enterprises’ earnings management behavior, with the severity of the pandemic being inversely related to the extent of earnings management. (2) Digital transformation negatively moderates the impact of COVID-19 on earnings management. (3) Firms with high financial distress or low operating income exhibit a more significant reduction in earnings management, while government support can effectively reduce earnings management pressures.

Keywords: COVID-19, earnings management, Digital transformation

Suggested Citation:

Leng, Aolin and Shen, Siyuan, Covid-19, Earnings Management and Digital Transformation: Pressures, Motivations And Opportunities Lost. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5349294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5349294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
H Ali , H M G Amin , D Mostafa , E K A Mohamed
Earnings management and investor protection during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence from G-12 countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 37 , issue 7 , p. 775 - 797 Posted: 2022
B Aljawaheri , O Abdul Wahhab , M Hassnain Kadhem , A Hussein
COVID-19 Lockdown, Earnings Manipulation and Stock Market Sensitivity: An Empirical Study in Iraq
Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 707 - 715 Posted: 2021
A A Aljughaiman , T H Nguyen , V Q Trinh , A Du
The Covid-19 outbreak, corporate financial distress and earnings management
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 88 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
FINANCIAL RATIOS, DISCRIMINANT ANALYSIS AND THE PREDICTION OF CORPORATE BANKRUPTCY
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
153
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies