Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Identity in Corporate Governance: Evidence from Gender Differences in the Audit Committee Chair-Chief Financial Officer Dyad

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5350097

60 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Musaib Ashraf

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Aishwarrya Deore

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Ranjani Krishnan

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: July 07, 2025

Abstract

We examine the role of identity in corporate governance, focusing on an important dyad: the audit committee chair (ACC) and the chief financial officer (CFO). Drawing on identity theory, which argues that people have lower trust in those they perceive to be different from themselves, we posit that the ACC’s trust in the CFO is lower when there is a gender difference. Using audit committee (AC) meetings as a proxy for ACC monitoring, we find that an ACC-CFO dyadic gender difference is associated with more AC meetings, consistent with the ACC having lower trust in the CFO. This effect is attenuated when a firm has value-based controls that promote a culture of diversity tolerance or when the CFO appears to be more trustworthy. We find no evidence that these increased AC meetings help improve financial reporting quality. However, we find some evidence that these increased AC meetings generate a negative externality: distracting the CFO, as proxied by lower operational performance. Our findings underscore the importance of identity in corporate governance generally and in dyadic-level monitoring specifically.

Keywords: Monitoring, Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, Chief Financial Officer, Identity, Accounting, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Musaib and Deore, Aishwarrya and Krishnan, Ranjani, The Role of Identity in Corporate Governance: Evidence from Gender Differences in the Audit Committee Chair-Chief Financial Officer Dyad (July 07, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5350097, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5350097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
160 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A journal of practice & theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fees. Auditing: A journal of practice & theory , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
R Adams
What do boards do? Evidence from board committee and director compensation data
Working Paper. Stockholm School of Economics Posted: 2005
R B Adams
Governance and the Financial Crisis. ECGI -Finance Working Paper Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
314
RANK
833,930
160 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies