Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Personality Similarity Influence the Formation of Auditor-in-Charge -Client Relationships and Audit Quality? Evidence from the Swedish Military Conscription Data

Forthcoming in Management Science

48 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Ting Dong

Stockholm School of Economics

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

Liwei Zhu

CUNEF Universidad

Date Written: April 30, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the role of personality similarity in the formation of auditor-in-charge (AIC)-client management dyads and the development of a collaborative relationship in auditing engagements. We apply the principle of homophily from sociology, i.e., the attraction of individuals with similar traits to one another, to the formation of supplier-customer dyads in auditing engagements. Our analyses suggest that AIC-management personality similarity increases the likelihood of dyad formation and facilitates client retention. Using an instrumental variable approach, we further find evidence that AIC-CEO personality similarity enhances audit quality, and that this effect is stronger for clients with higher misreporting risk and at the beginning of the AIC-client tenure relationship. Among publicly listed clients, where CFO data are available, we find that AIC-CFO personality similarity plays a more important role in AIC-client matching and audit outcomes than AIC-CEO personality similarity. Collectively, our results suggest that a personality homophily-based relationship facilitates collaboration in auditing engagements, ultimately enhancing audit quality. Overall, our evidence highlights the benefit of interpersonal relationships in the production of audit services.

Keywords: Auditor-Client Management Similarity, Personality Homophily, Auditor-Client Matching, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Dong, Ting and Nilsson, Henrik and Zhu, Liwei, Does Personality Similarity Influence the Formation of Auditor-in-Charge -Client Relationships and Audit Quality? Evidence from the Swedish Military Conscription Data (April 30, 2025). Forthcoming in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5352757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5352757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
G W Allport
Traits revisited
American Psychologist , volume 21 , issue 1 Posted: 1966
J Anglim , S Grant
Predicting psychological and subjective well-being from personality: Incremental prediction from 30 facets over the Big 5
Journal of Happiness Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 2016
D Antonioni , H Park
The effects of personality similarity on peer ratings of contextual work behaviors
Personnel Psychology , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 331 - 360 Posted: 2001
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
RANK
741,762
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies