Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building Credible Commitments via Board Ties: Evidence from the Supply Chain

Strategic Management Journal, 0[10.1002/smj.3740]

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-224

45 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 24 Aug 2025

Rebecca N. Hann

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Musa Subasi

University of Maryland-College Park - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Yue Zheng

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 12, 2025

Abstract

Research Summary:
Using a novel dataset that provides a comprehensive coverage of U.S. firms’ industrial supply chain relationships, we find that firms with innovation specific to a buyer are more likely to share a common director with that buyer. This association is stronger when the buyer has a larger number of alternative suppliers. We further find that when a supplier-buyer pair shares a common director, the supplier’s R&D investment is more sensitive to the investment opportunities of its buyer. Moreover, such pairs tend to have longer supply chain relationships. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that board ties serve as a credible commitment mechanism to support exchange along the supply chain and safeguard supplier’s buyer-specific investments.

Managerial Summary:
Our research shows that suppliers who create products or technologies tailored to a specific buyer are more likely to share a board member with that buyer. This relationship is stronger when the buyer has many other suppliers. Shared board members facilitate better communication and alignment between suppliers and buyers, leading to more effective R&D investments and longer-lasting business relationships. These ties help reduce the risk for suppliers when investing in customized solutions. For business leaders, strategically leveraging board connections can strengthen supply chain partnerships, promote collaborative innovation, and safeguard investments in buyer-specific technologies.

Suggested Citation:

Hann, Rebecca N. and Subasi, Musa and Zheng, Yue, Building Credible Commitments via Board Ties: Evidence from the Supply Chain (July 12, 2025). Strategic Management Journal, 0[10.1002/smj.3740], HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-224, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5352163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/smj.3740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
C Ahmadjian , J Oxley
Using hostages to support exchange: Dependence balancing and partial equity stakes in Japanese automotive supply relationships
Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 213 - 233 Posted: 2006
C L Ahmadjian , J E Oxley
Vertical relationships, hostages, and supplier performance: evidence from the Japanese automotive industry
The Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 485 - 512 Posted: 2013
E Anderson , B Weitz
The use of pledges to build and sustain commitment in distribution channels
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 34 Posted: 1992
H O Armour , D J Teece
Vertical integration and technological innovation
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 470 - 474 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
270
RANK
880,636
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies