Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Disclosure on Diversity: Evidence from the Canada Business Corporations Act

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 7 Sep 2025

Thomas Bourveau

University of Oxford, Saïd Business School

Xingchao Gao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

We examine the impact of a 2020 "comply-or-explain" disclosure mandate implemented in Canada. This regulation imposed the first disclosure mandate extending beyond gender diversity to include racial diversity. Using federally registered public firms as a treatment group and provincially registered public firms as a control group, we establish two main findings. First, racial diversity increased among directors of firms subject to the disclosure mandate. Gender diversity also increased, but only for firms not subject to an earlier rule pertaining only to gender diversity. Second, the impact of the disclosure mandate is plausibly driven by shareholder monitoring, notably through director elections. Overall, our findings contribute to the policy debate on the effects of disclosure mandates on social dimensions.

Keywords: Disclosure Regulation, Shareholder Monitoring, Board Diversity

JEL Classification: J15, G34, M14, M51

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Gao, Xingchao and Hope, Ole-Kristian, The Impact of Disclosure on Diversity: Evidence from the Canada Business Corporations Act (August 29, 2025). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , T Kirchmaier
Women on boards in finance and STEM industries
American Economic Review , volume 106 , p. 277 - 281 Posted: 2016
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , U Yilmaz
Why do investors vote against corporate directors? Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
472
RANK
505,214
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies