Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization of Accounting Standards and Treatment of Distributable Profits: Implications on Behaviors of Managements in Japan

Tohoku Economics Research Group Discussion Paper No. 313, Tohoku University, March 2014

16 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Hiroko Inokuma

Keio University - Graduate School of System Design and Management; Tohoku University

Takashi Shimizu

University of Tokyo

Date Written: March 10, 2014

Abstract

In recent times, the move towards globalization of accounting standards has been rapid. On the other hand, related accounting systems, like those for corporate laws, taxation laws, and capital market regulations, are still at the discretion of each country; hence, we do not expect material action towards their convergence globally. The purpose of this paper is to examine how financial accounting can be synchronized with these related systems in Japan, especially corporate laws, as the two have always been closely related. In this respect, we examined the experiences of other countries, particularly the U.S., the U.K. and France, since they are the most appropriate examples of how to deal with distributable profits reflecting international accounting standards like International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We also discuss the effect of the possible change of treatment distributable profits under global accounting standards on behaviors of managements. Considering the financial environment, the Japanese government will need to emulate the European countries, seeking insights into the depth and breadth of the issues of the globalization of accounting standards and accounting principles of corporate laws. Thus, the experiences of other countries will be good examples for Japan in the coming future.

Keywords: Globalization, IFRS, Financial Accounting, Corporate Law Accounting, Distributable Profits, Behaviors of Managements

Funder Statement

Grant-in-Aid was provided by National Institute of Informatics in Japan, Research Project Number 25380588 (from April 2013 to March 2016)

JEL Classification: F68, K22, K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Inokuma, Hiroko and Shimizu, Takashi, Globalization of Accounting Standards and Treatment of Distributable Profits: Implications on Behaviors of Managements in Japan (March 10, 2014). Tohoku Economics Research Group Discussion Paper No. 313, Tohoku University, March 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
William T Allen , Reinier Kraakman
Commentaries and Cases on the Law of Business Organization Posted: 2003
The Determination of Realised Profits and Disclosure of Distributable Profits in the Context of the Companies Acts 1948 to 1981
TR 481), Accountancy, October , p. 122 - 123
Ccab
The Determination of Distributable Profits in the Context of the Companies Act 1948 to 1981
TR482), Accountancy, October , p. 123 - 126 Posted: 1982
Guidance on the Determination of Realised Profits and Losses in the Context of Distributions Under the Companies Act Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies