Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequences of Mandatory ESG Disclosure: Evidence from Global Loan Markets

46 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Yun Luo

University of Southampton

Di Luo

University of Dundee School of Business

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: May 01, 2021

Abstract

Although many countries have implemented environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure regulations, the impact of these mandatory regulations on debt market remains widely debated. Using a difference-indifferences design and analyzing a large dataset of global bank loans from 2000 to 2019, we find that companies experience increased loan spreads following the implementation of mandatory ESG disclosure requirements. Channel tests reveal that this effect is primarily driven by increased ESG disagreement among rating agencies, greater environmental expenditures, and elevated litigation risks. Cross-sectional analyses further suggest that the influence of these regulations on loan spreads is more pronounced for firms with higher information opacity, greater financial constraints, and those operating in countries with weaker legal enforcement. Overall, our findings suggest that increased ESG transparency, though well-intentioned, may inadvertently lead to higher borrowing costs for firms.

Keywords: Mandatory ESG disclosure, bank loans, ESG disagreement

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Yun and Luo, Di and Wu, Qiang and Zeng, Cheng, The Unintended Consequences of Mandatory ESG Disclosure: Evidence from Global Loan Markets (May 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5355596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5355596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
S Aintablian , P A Mcgraw , G S Roberts
Bank monitoring and environmental risk
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 1-2 , p. 389 - 401 Posted: 2007
A Alimov
Intellectual property rights reform and the cost of corporate debt
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 91 , p. 195 - 211 Posted: 2019
N Apergis , T Poufinas , A Antonopoulos
ESG scores and cost of debt
Energy Economics , volume 112 Posted: 2022
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
645
RANK
759,678
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies