Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balanced Scorecard: History, Implementation, and Impact

13 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Dag Øivind Madsen

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business

Date Written: March 19, 2025

Abstract

The Balanced Scorecard (BSC) is a strategic management framework introduced by Kaplan and Norton in 1992 to address the limitations of traditional performance measurement systems. It integrates financial and non-financial performance measures across four perspectives-financial, customer, internal processes, and learning and growth. Over three decades, the BSC has evolved into a comprehensive strategic tool adopted across industries and sectors worldwide. While its adaptability and integrative approach are strengths, criticisms include challenges in implementation, assumed cause-effect relationships, and relevance in decentralized organizations. Future research should investigate cultural adaptation; the incorporation of environmental, social, and governance metrics; and advancements driven by artificial intelligence to maintain ongoing relevance.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Strategic Management, Performance Measurement, Organizational Performance, Management, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Dag Øivind, Balanced Scorecard: History, Implementation, and Impact (March 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5355092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5355092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
A Tawse , P Tabesh
Thirty years with the balanced scorecard: What we have learned
Bus. Horiz , volume 66 , p. 123 - 132 Posted: 2022
Z Hoque
20 years of studies on the Balanced Scorecard: Trends, accomplishments, gaps and opportunities for future research
Br. Account. Rev , volume 46 , p. 33 - 59 Posted: 2014
T Hindle
Guide to Management Ideas and Gurus; The Economist in Assocation with Profile Books Ltd Posted: 2008
R S Kaplan , D P Norton
The balanced scorecard-Measures that drive performance
Harv. Bus. Rev , volume 70 , p. 71 - 79 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
1 Citations
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies