Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Non-Audit Services Attract Regulatory Scrutiny?

forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

50 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 5 Aug 2025

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether the SEC and PCAOB scrutiny of audit clients and their auditors is associated with non-audit services (NAS) to those clients. We find that NAS fees paid by audit clients are positively associated with the likelihood of receiving an SEC comment letter, the number of accounting-related comments, and the volume of client filings downloaded by the SEC from EDGAR. Furthermore, NAS fees are positively associated with the number of days to resolve the comments raised, consistent with higher remediation costs. Similarly, the PCAOB inspects more clients and downloads more from EDGAR filings of clients of large auditors who receive a higher proportion of NAS fees relative to total fees, suggesting increased regulatory scrutiny. Overall, our results suggest that NAS draw scrutiny from regulators and highlight the potential hidden costs of purchasing NAS from external auditors.  

Keywords: Non-Audit Services, SEC Comment Letters, PCAOB Inspection, Regulatory Scrutiny

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Zhang, Yinqi and Zhou, Ling, Do Non-Audit Services Attract Regulatory Scrutiny? (July 15, 2025). forthcoming in Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5356033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5356033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , E Li , K Ramesh , M Shen
Which audits does the PCAOB monitor closely? Evidence from EDGAR searches Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
189
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies