Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Speaking Freely Pays: Anti-SLAPP Laws and Firms' Cost of Equity

European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1078/2025

67 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2025 Last revised: 23 Jul 2025

Scott Guernsey

University of Tennessee

Matthew Serfling

University of Tennessee; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Cheng Yan

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Date Written: July 17, 2025

Abstract

A fundamental question in corporate finance is whether a firm's cost of equity (COE) is influenced more by the amount of information disclosed or by the direction and tone of that information. While greater transparency can reduce information asymmetry and lower financing costs, negative disclosures may increase perceived risk and, consequently, firms' COE. We examine this trade-off using the adoption of U.S. state anti-SLAPP laws, which provide speech protections to corporate critics, thereby promoting the freer flow of information and negative disclosures. Employing an imputation-based difference-indifferences approach, we find that anti-SLAPP laws reduce firms' COE, especially for those in opaque information environments or with better-informed employees. Further analysis suggests that this effect operates through declines in information asymmetry, return volatility, and systematic and stock price crash risk. Our findings highlight how legal institutions that encourage free speech can lower financing costs by enhancing transparency and reducing uncertainty in capital markets.

Keywords: Freedom of Speech, Anti-SLAPP Laws, Cost of Equity, Financing Costs, Information Transparency

JEL Classification: G12, G30, J21, K22

Suggested Citation:

Guernsey, Scott and Serfling, Matthew and Yan, Cheng, When Speaking Freely Pays: Anti-SLAPP Laws and Firms' Cost of Equity (July 17, 2025). European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 1078/2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5356267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5356267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
270,833
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies