Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity and Leveraged Buyouts

24 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025

Ludovic Phalippou

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: July 20, 2025

Abstract

This chapter, prepared for Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Finance, Vol. 2: Takeovers and the Market for Corporate Control (ed. B. Espen Eckbo), analyzes the private equity model and its role within the broader takeover landscape. It clarifies the economic rationale for private markets, examines the mechanics of leveraged buyouts (LBOs), and reviews the impact of PE ownership on firm performance, default risk, and stakeholders. The chapter highlights both the strengths and controversies of the model.

Suggested Citation:

Phalippou, Ludovic, Private Equity and Leveraged Buyouts (July 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5359163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5359163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
RANK
527,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies