Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Climate Change: How Do Adaptation Initiatives Affect Bank versus Bond Financing?

55 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 24 Jul 2025

Sabri Boubaker

Ecole de Management de Normandie

Qi Jin

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Xiaoran Ni

Xiamen University - School of Economics; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Chi Zhang

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Date Written: July 20, 2025

Abstract

Climate change adaptation initiatives are designed to increase climate resilience, which requires scaling up climate finance. It is therefore essential to consider the financial resources that underpin the process of navigating climate change. Employing the staggered introduction of U.S. state-level climate change adaptation plans (CLAPs) as quasi-exogenous shocks, we examine how climate change adaptation polices affect corporate debt choice, i.e., the mix of firm-level bank versus bond financing. We find that initiating such plans significantly increases the reliance of affected firms on bank debt relative to public debt. This effect is more pronounced among firms prone to suffer from climate risks, with more fragile fundamentals and higher information asymmetries. Furthermore, we find that the spreads of newly issued bank loans rather than corporate bonds decrease significantly after the finalization of CLAPs. Our overall findings indicate that relative to public debtholders who are lacking of capacities to acquire firm-specific information, banks are able to distinguish climate-resilient borrowers, which shed light on how debt instruments should be designed to better adapt to climate change.

Keywords: Climate Change Adaptation, Climate Resilience, Debt Structure, Bank Loan, Public Debt

JEL Classification: G32, G33, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Boubaker, Sabri and Jin, Qi and Ni, Xiaoran and Zhang, Chi, Navigating Climate Change: How Do Adaptation Initiatives Affect Bank versus Bond Financing? (July 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5359436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5359436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2014
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
P Asimakopoulos , S Asimakopoulos , X Li
The role of environmental, social, and governance rating on corporate debt structure
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 83 Posted: 2023
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
RANK
906,046
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies