Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value-Relevance of Accounting Information: Exploring Alternative Metrics

40 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2025

Ni Li

Guangzhou University

Liang Hu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kenny Lin

Lingnan University

Abstract

The value-relevance of accounting information is a cornerstone of capital market research, typically measured indirectly through coefficients and R2 values from returns-earnings models, which have limitations in explaining how accounting information influences stock prices. Based on the theory of financial analyst and the generating process of accounting information, we propose a direct measurement approach using analyst consensus earnings forecasts to capture the effect of accounting information on decision-making. We also construct firm-level measures of predictive and confirmatory value, two qualitative characteristics of accounting information defined by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Using data from the Chinese stock market, where analysts play a crucial role, we find that our measures significantly explain the relationship between accounting information and stock prices, as well as stock price synchronicity. Our study offers a novel and verifiable method to quantify the abstract concept of value-relevance of accounting information, enhancing the understanding of its effect on decision-making and stock prices.

Keywords: Value-relevance of accounting information, Confirmatory value, Predictive value, Analyst forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ni and Hu, Liang and Lin, Kenny, Value-Relevance of Accounting Information: Exploring Alternative Metrics. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5361671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5361671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
D Ayres , X S Huang , M Myring
Fair value accounting and analyst forecast accuracy
Advances in Accounting , volume 37 , p. 58 - 70 Posted: 2017
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
323
RANK
914,805
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies