Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Guarantee, Still Gains? Rethinking the Relation between Non-Personal Guarantees and Bank Profitability

35 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 7 Aug 2025

Yuto Yoshinaga

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Kanjiro Onishi

Tohoku University - Economics & Management

Date Written: August 07, 2025

Abstract

Japanese financial authorities have been promoting lending without personal guarantees to support business succession, revitalize the regional economy and enhance banking sector stability. However, banks’ willingness to provide non-personal guaranteed loans varies. Furthermore, no study has directly examined the impact of non-personal guaranteed loans on bank profitability. Since Japanese regional banks have recently begun disclosing the proportion of non-personal guaranteed loans, this study empirically examines the impact of non-personal guaranteed loans on bank profitability, utilizing 336 bank/year observations from fiscal years 2019 to 2023. The results indicate that the proportion of non-personal guaranteed loans has no economically significant effect on bank profitability. This study contributes to the literature by providing the first empirical evidence on the impact of personal guarantees on bank profitability. It also offers practical insights, demonstrating that non-personal guaranteed loans do not significantly affect the profitability of regional banks, at least during the sample period examined.

Keywords: personal guarantee, financial authorities, bank, profitability, Japan

Declaration of Interest

No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).

Funder Statement

This project is funded by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (Grant numbers 25K16768).

JEL Classification: M41, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Yoshinaga, Yuto and Onishi, Kanjiro, No Guarantee, Still Gains? Rethinking the Relation between Non-Personal Guarantees and Bank Profitability (August 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5364372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5364372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Panayiotis P Athanasoglou , N Sophocles , Matthaios D Brissimis , Delis
Bank-Specific, Industry-Specific and Macroeconomic Determinants of Bank Profitability
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 136 Posted: 2008
H Bester
Screening vs. Rationing in Credit Markets with Imperfect Information
The American Economic Review , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 850 - 855 Posted: 1985
Arnoud W A Boot , Anjan V Thakor
Moral Hazard and Secured Lending in an Infinitely Repeated Credit Market Game
International Economic Review , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 899 - 920 Posted: 1994
Julien Cadot
Collateral, Bank Monitoring and Firm Performance: The Case of Newly Established Wine-Farmers
The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 344 - 358 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies