Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Audit Firms' Responses to the PCAOB's Triennial Inspection Reports

University of Miami Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Andres Guiral

Yonsei University

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Doocheol Moon

Yonsei University

Date Written: July 10, 2025

Abstract

In contrast with the common practice at the largest audit firms to simply acknowledge the PCAOB’s inspection report, many medium and small audit firms issue voluntary response letters that openly disagree with the PCAOB’s findings. These responses offer insights into auditors’ interactions with the PCAOB and their approach to deal with inspection deficiencies. We find that auditors that issue responses subsequently have lower audit quality, especially when the inspection reveals a high number of deficiencies. Next, relatively unstructured responses—characterized by brevity, low discrepancy, minimal technical content, and lack of partner signature—are associated with subsequently lower audit quality. Finally, clients are more likely to retain auditors that issue responses, especially when the response is unstructured and the client is relatively large. Regarding other outcomes, we do not find compelling evidence that responses are associated with negative investor reactions around the publication date or with the severity of future inspections, but responses are associated with increases in audit fees. Collectively, our findings suggest that among auditors with inspection deficiencies, responses to the PCAOB appear as strategic impression management that implies lower audit quality and increased client retention rates. 

Keywords: PCAOB inspections, triennial inspections, audit firm responses, audit quality, restatements, client retention, audit regulation

Suggested Citation:

Guillamon Saorin, Encarna and Guiral, Andres and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Moon, Doocheol, The Implications of Audit Firms' Responses to the PCAOB's Triennial Inspection Reports (July 10, 2025). University of Miami Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5364343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5364343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
L J Abbott , W Buslepp , M Notbohm
The audit market effects of disputing a GAAPdeficient PCAOB inspection report
Advances in Accounting , volume 41 , p. 126 - 140 Posted: 2018
L J Abbott , W L Buslepp , J R Moon , Jr , L A Swenson
The association between PCAOB inspection reports and seasoned equity offering discounting
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2023
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small auditors
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditorclient relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
RANK
864,457
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies