Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Accounting and Reporting of Co-operatives in the UK: Practices, Challenges and Recommendations

https://doi.org/10.25500/pure.bham.251348742

46 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Elisavet Mantzari

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: December 08, 2024

Abstract

This report explores the accounting and reporting practices and challenges faced by co-operatives in the UK, enterprises operating under principles of democratic control and mutual benefit. These defining principles set co-operatives apart from both investor-owned business and traditional for-profit or non-profit organisations. Accounting standards, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP), are tailored to investor-owned business and business driven by the profit motive, focusing primarily on increasing financial returns and shareholder value. As a result, these standards fail to adequately address the accountability needs of co-operatives, creating challenges for co-operatives in aligning their accounting practices and reporting with their purpose, core values, and governance structures. Drawing on interviews with co-operative practitioners, accountants, researchers, and regulators, this report provides insights into current practices, the obstacles co-operatives face, and potential pathways for improvement. Its primary objectives are to explore the accounting landscape for UK co-operatives, highlight key challenges, and offer recommendations to better align accounting practices and frameworks with the core principles and values of co-operatives.  

Keywords: accounting, cooperatives, reporting, UK

Funder Statement

We would like to sincerely thank the University of Birmingham for their financial support through the Business School’s Research and Impact funds, and acknowledge the financial support received by the Economic and Social Research Council’s Impact Acceleration Fund.

Suggested Citation:

Mantzari, Elisavet,

Accounting and Reporting of Co-operatives in the UK: Practices, Challenges and Recommendations

(December 08, 2024). https://doi.org/10.25500/pure.bham.251348742, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5365023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5365023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
I Adderley
Co-operatives: Linking Practice and Theory Posted: 2024
I Adderley , E Mantzari , M Mcculloch , D Rixon
Accounting and reporting for cooperatives: a UK perspective
Journal of Co-operative Studies , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 2021
J I G Balaguer , C J P Castellano
The different conception of economic profit in cooperatives
Journal of Co-Operative Accounting and Reporting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 52 Posted: 2012
L Beaubien , D Rixon
Key performance indicators in co-operatives: directions and principles
Journal of Co-operative Studies , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 15 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies