Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Thin Ice: Snowstorm, Supply Chain Resilience and Liquidity Management 

47 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2025 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Weihua Qiu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Li Chen

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of snowstorms on supply chain resilience and liquidity management in the US. Using three distinctive datasets from 2008 to 2023, we analyze how snowstorms affect supply chains. We find that consecutive snowstorms significantly increase the likelihood of contract terminations, highlighting the importance of trust and reliability in supply chain relationships. Snowstorms also lead to worse supplier performance, emphasizing the need for enhanced supply chain resilience. More importantly, we explore how firms adapt their supply chain strategies and manage liquidity in response to disruptions. Our findings reveal that companies employ adaptive strategies or bolster their cash reserves to prepare for future risks. This suggests that a robust supply chain can reduce the need for holding large amounts of cash, serving as an alternative to traditional liquidity management. We also find that higher inventory levels and stronger supply chain positions can mitigate the impact of supply chain risks on liquidity management. Our study contributes to the literature on supply chain resilience, liquidity management, and climate adaptation strategies.

Keywords: Supply Chain Resilience, Liquidity Management, Meteorological Disaster

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Weihua and Chen, Li, On Thin Ice: Snowstorm, Supply Chain Resilience and Liquidity Management  (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5365865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5365865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Heitor Viral V Acharya , Murillo Almeida , Campello
Aggregate risk and the choice between cash and lines of credit
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 5 , p. 2059 - 2116 Posted: 2013
David T Jawad M Addoum , Ariel Ng , Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and industry earnings news
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 150 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 45 Posted: 2023
Francis Annan , Wolfram Schlenker
Federal crop insurance and the disincentive to adapt to extreme heat
American Economic Review , volume 105 , issue 5 , p. 262 - 266 Posted: 2015
Markus Baldauf , Lorenzo Garlappi , Constantine Yannelis
Does climate change affect real estate prices? only if you believe in it
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1256 - 1295 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies