Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Comments to Policy: AI-Assisted Analysis on Stakeholder Responses to the SEC's Climate Disclosure Proposal

67 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Kostas Pappas

University of Liverpool - Accounting and Finance Division

Alice Liang Xu

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates public perspectives on the SEC's proposed climate disclosure rule by conducting an AI-assisted content analysis of over 4,500 unique comment letters. Using OpenAI's generative language model, we examine sentiment, arguments, suggestions, and influence of the comments. We find wide variation in sentiment across commenter types, industries, and geographic locations, with investor groups and Democratic-leaning states showing more support. Our results support the rulemaking process's input legitimacy but raise concerns about throughput legitimacy, as politically connected stakeholders exhibit greater influence. Additional analyses reveal that market reactions to the rule differ by industry and often diverge from public sentiment. Comparisons with comment letters submitted to the ISSB suggest less polarization outside the U.S. toward climate disclosure. The study contributes to literature on climate disclosure and regulatory lobbying and demonstrates the utility of AI in large-scale policy analysis. It offers practical implications for regulators seeking inclusive and effective climate-related regulations.

Keywords: climate disclosure, climate change, comment letters, sentiment, legitimacy, political science, generative AI, GPT, large language models, content analysis JEL Classification: D70, G18, K32, M41

JEL Classification: D70, G18, K32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pappas, Kostas and Xu, Alice Liang, From Comments to Policy: AI-Assisted Analysis on Stakeholder Responses to the SEC's Climate Disclosure Proposal (May 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5366251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5366251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
H Amiraslani , X Chen , G Ormazabal , P F Pope
Climate Disclosure Regulation and Investor Wealth Posted: 2024
M Arce , B Giner , M A Taleb
Due Process as a Legitimating Mechanism: Participation and Responsiveness in the Development of IFRS 17: Insurance Contracts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 6 Posted: 2023
J Armour , L Enriques , T Wetzer
Mandatory Corporate Climate Disclosures: Now, but How? Columbia Business Law Review , p. 1085 - 1146 Posted: 2021
J Aswani , A Raghunandan , S Rajgopal
Are Carbon Emissions Associated with Stock Returns? Review of Finance , volume 28 , p. 75 - 106 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
RANK
872,402
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies