Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Corporate Emissions to Financial Statements: Understanding Accounting Conservatism in the Wake of Carbon Risks

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics

51 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Farhana Islam

North South University

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Sammy Ying

Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: July 26, 2025

Abstract

We examine the relationship between carbon risk and accounting conservatism using 7,636 firm-year observations from 29 countries. Using firms' carbon emissions as a proxy for carbon risk, we find that firms with higher carbon risk exhibit greater conditional accounting conservatism. However, this positive relationship is weaker in firms with stronger corporate governance and higher institutional ownership, suggesting that effective internal and external monitoring reduces the reliance on conservative reporting in response to carbon-related exposures. Further analysis shows that the relationship becomes more pronounced after the 2015 Paris Agreement. The effect is also stronger in countries with active emissions trading schemes (ETS), higher governance quality, and stakeholderoriented business cultures. These findings offer timely and policy-relevant insights for regulators, standard-setters, and policymakers, particularly in light of the introduction of IFRS S2 by the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), which mandates climate-related financial disclosures and emphasizes the importance of integrating carbon risk into core financial reporting practices.

Keywords: Carbon Risk, Carbon Emission, Accounting Conservatism, IFRS, ISSB, Cross-Country

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Farhana and Bose, Sudipta and Ying, Sammy Xiaoyan and Shams, Syed, From Corporate Emissions to Financial Statements: Understanding Accounting Conservatism in the Wake of Carbon Risks (July 26, 2025). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5366687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5366687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
J. Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
S C Anagnostopoulou , A E Tsekrekos , G Voulgaris
Accounting conservatism and corporate social responsibility
The British Accounting Review , volume 53 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate governance and the information environment: Evidence from state antitakeover laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
263
RANK
864,457
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies