Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Firms Change Fiscal Year-End?

53 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2025

Vivi Zhu

Tulane University; Southern Methodist University (SMU)

Abstract

Changing fiscal year-end (FYE) unequivocally impacts time-series consistency, yet firms appear to be willing to change it. Enhanced comparability with industry peers appears to be a significant driver of this change. Aligning FYE with industry peers is associated with an improved information environment as proxied by a significant increase in analyst coverage, the number of forecasts per analyst, and institutional ownership. Additionally, loss-making firms also appear more likely to switch FYEs, ostensibly to dump losses in the less-than-12-month stub period created by the transition. Examining changes to and from December separately, I find that small firms are more likely to move to a non-December FYE, suggesting that accounting costs such as audit fees are a consideration in changing FYE. On average, the market reacts significantly to the FYE change disclosure.

Keywords: fiscal year-end, comparability, consistency, accounting choice

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Zhiwei, Why Do Firms Change Fiscal Year-End?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5367285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5367285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
R J Ball
Changes in accounting techniques and stock prices
Journal of Accounting , volume 10 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 1972
R J Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
286
RANK
889,053
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies