Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance measurements of the international joint ventures in an emerging market

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: January 03, 2008

Abstract

This chapter identifies ten major internal and external factors that may affect the processes of measuring performance of international joint ventures (IJVs) by their parents. A parent is defined as the business unit that administers, including giving continuing resources and support, and formulates the strategies of the IJVs. The factors are generally divided into internal and external perspectives. The internal factors include agency, control, strategy, technology, and transaction costs, whereas the external elements include culture and society, economy and market size, government and politics, industrial structure, and resources.

Based on a series of semi-structured interviews with the CEOs and CFOs of five organizations with 3 from manufacturing and 2 from services, whose parents are based in Houston, Texas, and their IJVs in the People’s Republic of China, this chapter concludes that all the factors have impact, one way or another, on the performance of IJVs. Thus, it is essential that the parents consider these factors when evaluating and rewarding the IJVs. Further, the parents should assess the performance based on both the financial and non-financial returns of IJVs. Results of this finding have implications for the parents, IJVs, and stakeholders of the organizations.

Declaration of Interest

Not applicable

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Funder Statement

Not applicable

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Performance measurements of the international joint ventures in an emerging market (January 03, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5367370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5367370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies