Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industrial Complexity and the Structural Limits of Industry-Based Accrual Models

12 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2025

SEUNG YEON LIM

Kookmin University

Abstract

This study investigates the structural validity of industry-based models for estimating discretionary accruals (DA) in firms with diversified industrial structures. Using Korea’s institutional setting, which requires disclosure of both consolidated and separate financial statements, we construct a proxy for industrial layering, defined as the ratio of the revenue difference between the two statements to consolidated revenue. We assess whether industry-based DA estimates deviate from pooled estimates that do not rely on industry classification. Our findings show that such deviations are not systematically related to industrial layering when consolidated statements are used, suggesting that industry-based models fail to capture relevant variation in industrial complex firms. In contrast, when separate financial statements are used, the deviation increases significantly with industrial layering, indicating greater sensitivity to structural heterogeneity. These findings underscore the limitations of traditional industry-based models in capturing accrual behavior in multi-industry firms and highlight the need for structurally aligned approaches in evaluating earnings quality amid rising corporate diversification.

Keywords: Accrual models, Discretionary accruals, Industry complexity, Consolidated financial statements, Earnings quality

Suggested Citation:

LIM, SEUNG YEON, Industrial Complexity and the Structural Limits of Industry-Based Accrual Models. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5367042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5367042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS No. 131 on information and monitoring
J. Account. Res , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
S Bhojraj , C M C Lee , D K Oler
What's my line? A comparison of industry classification schemes for capital market research
J. Account. Res , volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
D W Collins , P Hribar , X Tian
The persistence and pricing of discretionary accruals
Account. Rev , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 157 - 193 Posted: 2011
P M Dechow , I D Dichev
The quality of accruals and earnings: The role of accrual estimation errors
Account. Rev , volume 77 , issue S-1 , p. 35 - 59 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
80
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies