Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value My Care, Safeguard Your Fare: CEO Inside Debt Holdings and Wage Theft

46 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Dorcas Nduakoh

University of Exeter

Emmanuel Obiri-Yeboah

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Emmanuel Ofosu

Lingnan University

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

We provide compelling evidence that wage theft is less prevalent in firms with large CEO inside debt holdings. These findings align with the view that CEOs who have substantial inside debt holdings are more attuned to the adverse effects of wage theft on their payoffs. This heightened sensitivity incentivizes them to promote fair compensation policies. To establish causality, we conduct a difference-indifferences analysis around the implementation of the Internal Revenue Code Section 409A Final Regulation and an instrumental variable estimation. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the negative effect of CEO inside debt on wage theft is stronger in firms led by more risk-averse CEOs but attenuated in the presence of greater union coverage and greater proportions of secured debt. Supplemental evidence indicates that CEO inside debt leads to an increase in firms' overall payroll costs, while wage theft has a negative effect on firm performance.

Keywords: Wage Theft, CEO Inside Debt, Unethical Behavior

Suggested Citation:

Nduakoh, Dorcas and Obiri-Yeboah, Emmanuel and Ofosu, Emmanuel and Wu, Qiang, Value My Care, Safeguard Your Fare: CEO Inside Debt Holdings and Wage Theft (July 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5369505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5369505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Access
Posted: 2025-06
S Agca , V Babich , J R Birge , J Wu
Credit Shock Propagation Along Supply Chains: Evidence from the CDS Market
Management Science , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
Fairness and unemployment
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 49 Posted: 1988
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
RANK
759,678
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies