Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Power and Audit Fees: Worldwide Evidence

54 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Bin Wang

Marquette University - College of Business Administration

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Zhengyi Zhang

Capital University of Economics and Business (CUEB) - International School of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 01, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates how country-level Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) affects auditors' pricing decisions. Using a sample of 22 OECD countries over the 1996-2011 period, we find that auditors charge lower fees for firms whose employees have greater collective bargaining power as a result of country-level employee protection legislation reforms. We further explore the potential channels and find that a firm's labor power is negatively associated with its earnings management and financial leverage, but positively associated with the value of employee stock options plans and staff wages. In addition, we find that the negative relationship between employee power and audit fees is more profound for firms headquartered in countries with weak corporate governance (i.e., common law countries, non-EU countries, worse governmental effectiveness), and for firms headquartered in countries with strong labor unions.

Keywords: Employment Protection Legislation (EPL), Audit Fees, Earnings Management, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Bin and Wu, Qiang and Yang, Rong and Zhang, Zhengyi, Employee Power and Audit Fees: Worldwide Evidence (January 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5370809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Earnings management, litigation risk, and asymmetric audit fee responses
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2006
V V Acharya , R P Baghai , K V Subramanian
Wrongful discharge laws and innovation
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 301 - 346 Posted: 2013
J Addison , P Teixeira
The economics of employment protection
Journal of Labor Research , volume 24 , p. 85 - 128 Posted: 2003
A Alimov
Labor protection laws and bank loan contracting
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 74 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
143
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies