Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whose Voice Speaks? A Multilevel Perspective on CEO Sense Giving in Earnings-Calls

41 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Shyam Kumar

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Sen Li

Bentley University

Xinying Qu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rui Fan

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Department of Economics

Abstract

CEOs interpret firm performance and strategy by engaging in sense giving in communication such as earnings calls. Yet they must balance individualized sense giving with firm- and industry-level communication norms to make such sense giving effective with stakeholders. How much of what CEOs say truly reflects their own voice and agency, and do they amplify that voice and agency when circumstances demand? We analyze 15,855 quarterly earnings-calls conducted by U.S. firms, applying multi-level variance partitioning to four linguistic dimensions that capture tone, concreteness, external focus, and forward-looking orientation. Our findings reveal that CEO-specific effects explain 19% to 30.95% of overall linguistic variance along these dimensions, versus 10.6% to 20.56% for firm communication norms and 4.7% to 15.6% for industry norms. CEO share of this variance rises significantly after negative earnings surprises, and when analyst coverage is low, indicating adaptive sense-giving. The study contributes to the literature in three ways: (1) by highlighting the multi-level structure of CEO communication and sense-giving through the variances attributable to each level, (2) by demonstrating that CEOs strategically intensify sense-giving when external informational demands increase and widen, and (3) by demonstrating sense-giving as an adaptive mechanism and a managerial capability that mediates between the firm and the environment.

Keywords: CEO communication, sense-giving, corporate disclosure, textual analysis, variance decomposition analysis

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Shyam and Li, Sen and Qu, Xinying and Fan, Rui, Whose Voice Speaks? A Multilevel Perspective on CEO Sense Giving in Earnings-Calls. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370314 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5370314
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies