Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Winner or Winner's Curse? Do CEOS and Companies Benefit from Internal Competition

European Financial Management, 0[10.1111/eufm.70008]

Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 30 Jul 2025

Sofia Johan

Florida Atlantic University - Finance; University of Vaasa; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Peigong Li

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Feng Zhan

Western University

WanWan Zhu

Leeds University Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 27, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether features of the tournament structure determine the cross-sectional variation in the pay premiums of tournament winners and whether the level of rewards for tournament winners is related to future firm performance. Using a unique data set of 116 internal Chief Executive Officer (CEO) succession events in US bank holding companies, we find that the winner's pay premium level is positively associated with the steepness of the tournament structure before CEO succession. Higher pay premiums reflect the new CEO's managerial ability as perceived by shareholders and are also associated with greater improvements in bank performance following CEO succession.

Suggested Citation:

Johan, Sofia A. and Li, Peigong and Zhan, Feng and Zhu, WanWan, Winner or Winner's Curse? Do CEOS and Companies Benefit from Internal Competition (July 27, 2025). European Financial Management, 0[10.1111/eufm.70008], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/eufm.70008
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
109
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies