Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Public Management Budgetary Process; 'The Budget Merry-go-Round', in the UK

14 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Harin De Silva

Independent

Keith Luck

Independent

Date Written: April 01, 2019

Abstract

This is a case study of a public sector budget and budgetary process in the UK. The paper highlights the importance of the budgetary process and budget as an important management accounting tool to have economic power and control over the business activities and the use of resources to achieve the agreed efficiencies and outcomes. The use of the budget has its costs and its benefits. The study highlights a detailed account of public sector budgetary process and the final budget and the control exerted by the macro environment, over the microenvironments to deliver the agreed outcomes. The study discusses the uncertainty, budget control risk, financial and non-financial performance measurement, gaming, March madness and the importance of top down and bottom up information channels and negotiations that take place in the public sector budgetary process. It further discusses how the public sector budgetary process has evolved with the use of management accounting tools such as the use of unit cost and modelling tools to reduce the budget control risk. Further the changes brought in by the government can influence a change in the governance framework. In the past decade we have seen an austerity framework of governance with dominant multiple logics having control over the agencies and departments. Further the paper attempts to discuss the relationship between the Her Majesties Treasury identified as a Principle Peak Coordination Hub and the 'funding harness' it has over the agencies and departments, the Secondary Peak Coordination Hubs to have economic power and control over the complex network, working in sync as a carousal to achieve the negotiated outcomes.

Keywords: Words, ANT, Austerity, Budget, Dominant Logics, Governance, Gaming, Principle Peak Coordination Hub, Secondary Peak Coordination Hub, Prosperity. Public sector. NPM, Carousel, March Madness

Declaration of Interest

There is no financial relationship.

Ethics Approval

The paper was presented at the MARG Conference UK in 2015. Also, the paper was presented to the FAM Journal in 2019. The above confirms that the paper has been scrutinised and adheres to the ethical standards for research and publication.

Funder Statement

There is no funder relationship.

Suggested Citation:

De Silva, Harin and Luck, Keith, The New Public Management Budgetary Process; 'The Budget Merry-go-Round', in the UK (April 01, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M Arnaboldi , I Lapsley
Making management auditable; the implementation of best value in local government, Abacus Posted: 2008
M Arnaboldi , Lapsley , Steccolini
Posted: 2015
Performance Management in the Public Sector
The Ultimate Challenge; Financial Accountability and Management
A J Berry , P M Collier , A J Berry , T Capps , D Cooper , P Fergason , T Hopper , E A Lowe , A J Berry , A F Coad , E P Harris , D T Otley , C Stringer
Management Control in the area of the NCB; Rationales of accounting practices in a public sector enterprise
Risk in the process of budgeting; Management Accounting Research Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies