Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biodiversity Risk and Pay Duration

18 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

YULIN LI

University of Adelaide, Faculty of the Professions, School of Economics, Students

Xiaohui Liu

The University of Adelaide

Jean Canil

University of Adelaide - Business School

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

We examine the relationship between firm-level biodiversity risk and executive pay duration. Consistent with agency theory, we find that firms facing higher biodiversity risk tend to extend the vesting horizon of executive compensation, aligning managerial incentives with long-term environmental considerations. This association is more pronounced when external governance is weak and internal governance is strong, indicating a substitution-complementarity dynamic between governance mechanisms. We show that adopting longer pay duration in response to biodiversity risk leads to subsequent adoption of biodiversity risk reduction policies, suggesting that compensation design can be an effective tool for environmental risk management. Our findings highlight the role of executive incentives in addressing emerging non-financial risks and contribute to the growing literature on sustainable corporate governance.

Suggested Citation:

LI, YULIN and Liu, Xiaohui and Canil, Jean, Biodiversity Risk and Pay Duration (May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
M F Ahmad , A Karpuz
Beyond climate change risk: Biodiversity and corporate cash holdings
Economics Letters , volume 236 Posted: 2024
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , issue 3 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
159
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies