Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Accounting Education and Job Market during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Implications for Governance and Regulation

Bulbul, G., Hassan, A., AlAmeeri, A., ElKelish, W. W., Irsyadillah, I., & Al Mahameed, M. (2025). Accounting education and job market during the COVID-19 pandemic: Implications for governance and regulation. Journal of Governance & Regulation, 14(3), 74–80.
https://doi.org/10.22495/jgrv14i3art7

7 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025 Last revised: 16 Aug 2025

Galeb Bulbul

University of Sharjah

Ali Hassan

University of Sharjah

Abdulla AlAmeeri

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Irsyadillah Irsyadillah

Syiah Kuala University

Muhammad Al Mahameed

University of Sharjah - College of Business Administration

Date Written: August 12, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on accounting education and the job market. This paper collects primary data through eight semi-structured interviews. The thematic content analysis is then used to analyze the interviews and to answer the research questions. This paper extends previous literature by highlighting the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on accounting education and jobs in an emerging market like the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It provides valuable guidelines to several stakeholders on handling the effects of this pandemic now and in the future. During the pandemic, the interviewees indicated some changes in accounting education practices by shifting to online teaching methods. Modern learning methods are more effective and efficient than traditional methods, and this trend will continue. In addition, they indicated increasing online recruitment interviews, part-time job offers, reduced employee compensations to cut off costs, reduced firms’ profitability, and more investment in business information systems software and hardware. This paper has limitations concerning the small number of interviewees and conducting interviews online due to social distancing restrictions during the pandemic. Furthermore, interviewees recommended ways to support accounting education and the job market, such as state interventions, outsourcing, and increased awareness and training.

Keywords: Accounting Education, Job Market, COVID-19, Emerging Markets

Suggested Citation:

Bulbul, Galeb and Hassan, Ali and AlAmeeri, Abdulla and Elkelish, Walaa and Irsyadillah, Irsyadillah and Al Mahameed, Muhammad,

Accounting Education and Job Market during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Implications for Governance and Regulation

(August 12, 2025).
Bulbul, G., Hassan, A., AlAmeeri, A., ElKelish, W. W., Irsyadillah, I., & Al Mahameed, M. (2025). Accounting education and job market during the COVID-19 pandemic: Implications for governance and regulation. Journal of Governance & Regulation, 14(3), 74–80.
https://doi.org/10.22495/jgrv14i3art7
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
O B Adedoyin , E Soykan
COVID-19 pandemic and online learning: The challenges and opportunities
Interactive Learning Environments , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 863 - 875 Posted: 2020
B B Ahundjanov , S B Akhundjanov , B B Okhunjanov
Information search and financial markets under COVID-19
Entropy , volume 22 , issue 7 Posted: 2020
M Al Mahameed , U Riaz , L Gee
From unrequited love to sleeping with the enemy: COVID-19 and the future relationship between UK universities and professional accounting bodies
Accounting Research Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 427 - 445 Posted: 2022
M Al Mahameed , D Yates , F Gebreiter
Management as ideology: "New" managerialism and the corporate university in the period of COVID-19
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 57 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
100
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies