Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tech Industry Growth and Accounting Labor Supply: Evidence from Local Tech Industry Subsidies

47 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 30 Jul 2025

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Shaphan Ng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Il Sun Yoo

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: July 29, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether local tech industry growth influences the supply of accounting labor by exploiting state and local subsidies awarded to digital tech firms as our setting. We find that accounting graduates increase in regions that award these tech industry subsidies, indicating that students respond to greater demand for accounting services as a result of tech industry-driven local economic growth. The effect is concentrated in regions experiencing higher economic growth and at universities with more in-state students, but mitigated by low wage growth, long working hours, and CPA certification requirements. Furthermore, we validate that the demand for accounting services increases following the tech industry subsidies, as evidenced by increases in accounting employment and wages. Overall, our findings suggest that local tech industry growth strengthens the accounting labor market in the region.

Suggested Citation:

Lourie, Ben and Ng, Shaphan and Yoo, Il Sun, Tech Industry Growth and Accounting Labor Supply: Evidence from Local Tech Industry Subsidies (July 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Acemoglu , D H Autor
Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Employment and Earnings. Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
A Agrawal , I Cockburn , A Galasso , A Oettl
Why are Some Regions More Innovative than Others? The Role of Small Firms in the Presence of Large Labs
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 81 , p. 149 - 165 Posted: 2014
J G Altonji
The Demand for and Return to Education When Education Outcomes are Uncertain
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 83 Posted: 1993
J G Altonji , P Arcidiacono , A Maurel
Chapter 7 -The Analysis of Field Choice in College and Graduate School: Determinants and Wage Effects
Handbook of the Economics of Education , volume 5 , p. 305 - 396 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
237
RANK
819,493
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies