Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS 17 Implementation in the UAE Emerging Market

The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBT’Cairo2025), The American
University in Cairo, Egypt. ICBT’Cairo2025, September 29 to October 1, 2025

3 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Mahmoud Osama

University of Sharjah

Mahmoud Azmi

University of Sharjah

Mohammed Salem

University of Sharjah

Mohamed Sheriff Hamid Kamara

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Date Written: July 29, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the influence of the new IFRS 17 implementation in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). This paper uses primary data through a self-administered survey instrument distributed to listed insurance companies. The results indicate that IFRS 17 Implementation has a significant impact on insurance companies’ transparency ranking, market valuation accuracy, and data reconciliation time. This paper has several practical implications for corporate managers and regulators.

Keywords: IFRS17, Insurance Contracts, Emerging Market

Suggested Citation:

Osama, Mahmoud and Azmi, Mahmoud and Salem, Mohammed and Kamara, Mohamed Sheriff Hamid and Elkelish, Walaa, The Impact of IFRS 17 Implementation in the UAE Emerging Market (July 29, 2025).
The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBT’Cairo2025), The American
University in Cairo, Egypt. ICBT’Cairo2025, September 29 to October 1, 2025
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
K Aljifri , H Khasharmeh
An investigation into the suitability of the international accounting standards to the United Arab Emirates environment
International Business Review , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 505 - 526 Posted: 2006
N Almarzooqi , M Shah , A Mohammed , W Elkelish , A Jaafar , M El-Bannany
The determinants of customer profitability analysis during the COVID-19 crisis
The International Conference on Business and Digital Technology (ICBDT2024) Posted: 2024
A Alnodel
The effect of adopting international financial reporting standards on capital market integration in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries
Risk Governance & Control: Financial Markets & Institutions , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 464 - 474 Posted: 2016
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the United Arab Emirates emerging market
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies