Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Mandatory Supplier Finance Program Disclosure on Credit Markets

69 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2025

Philip G. Berger

University of Chicago - Chookaszian Accounting Research Center

Minjia Li

Alberta School of Business, University of Alberta

Y. Christine Liu

Bentley University

Date Written: February 07, 2025

Abstract

We study the impact of the FASB's 2022 introduction of mandatory Supplier Finance Program (SFP) disclosure on credit markets. We argue credit markets may be affected by two sequential steps. First, the existence of SFP arrangements creates hidden, debt-like obligations that may structurally subordinate bondholders; second, mandated disclosure makes these previously hidden subordination risks visible. We find firms with higher ex-ante SFP dependence face higher bond yields following the mandate, consistent with credit markets repricing risk in response to the newly revealed subordination of bondholders' claims. The effect is stronger for firms with higher default risk, and affected firms reduce their reliance on SFPs and shift toward public debt financing. The mandate shows no significant effect on bank debt financing, consistent with banks maintaining their senior secured status regardless of whether an SFP exists or is disclosed. Credit ratings for affected firms are lowered following the mandate, suggesting that it provides new information to even sophisticated financial intermediaries. Our findings highlight the consequences of SFP transparency for bond markets, showing that disclosure mandates can reshape bond market perceptions of firms that use structured financing arrangements.

Keywords: Mandatory Disclosure, Supplier Finance Program, Working Capital Management, Capital Structure, Credit Risk, Public Debt, FASB Amendment, Accounts Payable, Unintended Consequences of Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Philip G. and Li, Minjia and Liu, Y. Christine, The Effects of Mandatory Supplier Finance Program Disclosure on Credit Markets (February 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5372816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5372816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D C Badoer , C Demiroglu
The relevance of credit ratings in transparent bond markets
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 74 Posted: 2019
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Bank for International Settlements (BIS) , volume 46 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
H Bessembinder , W Maxwell , K Venkataraman
Market transparency, liquidity externalities, and institutional trading costs in corporate bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 288 Posted: 2006
P G Berger , M Minnis , A Sutherland
Commercial lending concentration and bank expertise: Evidence from borrower financial statements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , issue 2-3 , p. 253 - 277 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
734
RANK
432,018
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies