Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimizing Transparency and Accuracy: How Technology Revolutionizes Sustainability Reporting

14 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025

Yeni Priatnasari

Universitas Harkat Negeri; Politeknik Harapan Bersama; Sebelas Maret University - Accounting Department

Abdul Kharis Almasyhari

Universitas Muhammadiyah Semarang

Date Written: June 21, 2025

Abstract

This paper aims to provide the impact of technology in sustainability reporting anda how technology revolutionizes the company operations. In sustainability reporting, there are three important aspects that can be used to evaluate a company's performance, namely, first, environmental, which focuses on managing the company's impact on nature. Second, corporate social interaction with employees, communities and society at large. Third, the governance of a company includes the structure of the board of directors, transparency in reporting, business ethics and compliance with the law. With the increasingly rapid development of technology, it plays a crucial role in supporting sustainability reporting. Technology in sustainability reporting allows companies to collect, analyze and report data more efficiently and effectively. By using special software, companies can automate the process of collecting data from various sources, this can speed up the reporting process so that companies can more quickly assess and improve sustainability performance. Additionally, technologies such as big data and analytics enable companies to gain deeper insights into the environmental and social impacts of corporate performance. By analyzing large amounts of data, companies can identify trends and patterns that may not be visible with traditional methods. This helps in better and strategic decision making, and allows companies to set more measurable sustainability targets.

Keywords: Big Data, Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing, Sustainability Reporting, Technology

JEL Classification: Q01, M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Priatnasari, Yeni and Almasyhari, Abdul Kharis, Optimizing Transparency and Accuracy: How Technology Revolutionizes Sustainability Reporting (June 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5373349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5373349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Abhayawansa , C Adams , R Busulwa , M Shying
Research: Digital technologies and sustainability reporting Posted: 2023
S Anggoro
Teknologi untuk Memantau Kinerja ESG
Esgindonesia.Com Posted: 2023
The Top 7 Benefits of Sustainability Reporting
Www.Brightest.Io Posted: 2023
F Daidai
Blockchain Technology and Its Impact on the Accounting. Proceedings of Third Emerging Trends and Technologies on Intelligent Systems Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies