Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Disclosure with No Fundamentals

32 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025

Chao Gao

Australian National University, RSFAS

Haozhe Han

Tianjin University - College of Management and Economics

Grace Xing Hu

PBC School of Finance, Tsinghua University

Date Written: February 21, 2025

Abstract

At IPO, SPAC securities are not backed by any operating businesses and thus have virtually no fundamentals. Taking advantage of this feature of the SPACs, we investigate the role of non-fundamental information in the financial market from the perspectives of both the firm and the investors. We model this non-fundamental information in a simple framework and derive testable hypotheses. Consistent with the model predictions, we document that low-capability SPAC sponsors use a more positive tone for the non-fundamental disclosure to attract capital. Consequently, the tone at the SPAC IPO negatively predicts the subsequent performance of the SPAC. But a more positive tone is associated with a reputational cost which prevents the sponsors from launching new SPACs in the future.

Keywords: Non-fundmental Information, Textual Tone, SPAC, Voluntary Disclosure, IPO

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Chao and Han, Haozhe and Hu, Grace Xing, Information Disclosure with No Fundamentals (February 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5373232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5373232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Snehal Banerjee , Martin Szydlowski
Harnessing the overconfidence of the crowd: A theory of SPACs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 153 Posted: 2024
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Bradley E Hendricks , Gregory S Miller , Douglas R Stockbridge
A Hard Look at SPAC Projections
Management Science , volume 68 , p. 4742 - 4753 Posted: 2022
Castellani , Karl A Vincent , K J Muller , Park
Investor Reaction to SPACs' Voluntary Disclosures
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , p. 105 - 137 Posted: 2024
Kimball Chapman , Richard M Frankel , Xiumin Martin
SPACs and Forward-Looking Disclosure: Hype or Information?, SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
116
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies