Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Short Sellers' Information Acquisition: Evidence from Interviews with Activist Short Sellers and Analyses of Short Reports

78 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Janja Brendel

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Yike Wang

HEC Paris

Date Written: July 31, 2025

Abstract

How short sellers acquire and disseminate information remains poorly understood. Using in-depth interviews with nine activist short sellers and an analysis of 820 short reports from 2010 to 2021, we examine how they source, process, and communicate evidence. The interviews reveal a three‐stage workflow—idea generation, thesis validation, and report writing—in which they strategically tailor disclosures to balance credibility, legal risk, and anticipated counterarguments. Archival coding of reports identifies 18 distinct source types, and we find that short reports cite on average 36 pre-existing information sources (e.g., SEC filings) and 1.6 new information sources (e.g., first-hand investigations). Each additional public source is associated with a 2.2 basis point stock‐price decline over two days, whereas each new source is associated with a larger but slower market reaction (negative 13.4 basis points over six days). Additional evidence highlights the uniqueness of fraud allegations, associations with abnormal short interest, and changes in media sentiment. Our findings show how short sellers blend superior processing of public data with the development of unique new information to support a short thesis.

Keywords: G14, G23, G32, M40 Short selling, information acquisition, information sources, content analyses, price discovery, information processing

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Brendel, Janja and Paugam, Luc and Wang, Yike, Short Sellers' Information Acquisition: Evidence from Interviews with Activist Short Sellers and Analyses of Short Reports (July 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5373318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5373318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
882
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,321
RANK
62,265
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies