Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Corporate Reputation and Compensation Disclosure on Investor Judgments

Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research (Forthcoming)

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025 Last revised: 1 Aug 2025

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

A key aspect of compensation disclosure relates to top executive compensation. Regulators now require public companies to disclose their CEO pay ratio. This is computed as the ratio of the compensation of a company’s chief executive officer (CEO) to the median compensation of its employees.  We use a controlled experiment to examine whether non-professional investors’ investment judgments are jointly influenced by the magnitude of CEO pay ratio disclosures and a firm’s corporate reputation. We find that the disclosure of a higher-than-industry CEO pay ratio has a more negative effect on investor’s investment judgments when a firm has a good corporate reputation than when it has a bad corporate reputation. We also find that the disclosure of a comparable-to-industry CEO pay ratio has a more positive effect on investors’ investment judgments when a firm has a bad corporate reputation than when it has a good corporate reputation.. Our study contributes by examining how corporate reputation can moderate the relationship between the magnitude of CEO pay ratio and investors’ investment judgments. It also contributes to the reputation literature by highlighting a context where a good corporate reputation can lead to less favorable investor judgments than a bad corporate reputation.

Keywords: corporate reputation, executive compensation disclosure, investor judgments

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Clarence and Pan, Gary and Seow, Poh-Sun, The Effects of Corporate Reputation and Compensation Disclosure on Investor Judgments (July 01, 2024). Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research (Forthcoming), Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5375109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5375109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
L A Aguilar
Providing context for executive compensation decisions. Speech delivered at the SEC open meeting Posted: 2013-09-18
S H Ang , A M Wight
Building intangible resources: The stickiness of reputation
Corporate Reputation Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 2009
C S Armstrong , C D Ittner , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, compensation consultants, and CEO pay levels
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 322 - 351 Posted: 2012
H S Asay , R Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies