Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Next Accounting Frontier: Bringing Structure and Reliability to NLP

Posted: 1 Aug 2025 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Jacob Pozharny

Bridgeway Capital Management

Kate Suslava

Bucknell University Freeman College of Management

Date Written: July 21, 2025

Abstract

Global investors navigate vast amounts of qualitative information, which differs significantly across various disclosure regimes. Our study uses a unique database that adopts a structured approach to natural language processing (NLP) analysis following a centuries-tested approach of classifying and presenting quantitative information in financial statements. The database provides extractions of qualitative information about  the income statement, balance sheet, and other financially relevant items. We provide two examples of how investors can utilize this database to create signals that yield favorable results, one for the ACWII IMI universe and one for the domestic US market. These signals also exhibit reasonably low correlations with other investment factors, providing further evidence about the complementary nature of qualitative information.  Our study provides evidence that a reliable and repeatable NLP extraction process can offer meaningful insights to investors, bridging the gap between unstructured qualitative information and structured financial reports. Full manuscript is available upon request.

Keywords: global quantitative investing, natural language processing, content analysis, unstructured data

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Livnat, Joshua and Pozharny, Jacob and Suslava, Kate,

The Next Accounting Frontier: Bringing Structure and Reliability to NLP

(July 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5375612
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies