Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Impact of Audit Committees on Financial Data Reporting Quality and Corporate Accountability

9 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Ruhul Quddus Majumder

Daffodil Institute of IT (DIIT)

Date Written: July 25, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates how audit committee characteristics influence the quality of financial data reporting and corporate accountability in publicly listed companies. Using agency theory and the corporate governance literature, the research specifically explores the roles of independence, financial expertise, and meeting frequency of audit committee members in reducing financial restatements and enhancing accountability. With a quantitative research approach, the study analyzes panel data from 100 firms (50 financial and 50 non-financial) listed on the country's stock exchange for the period 2018 to 2022. Audited annual reports provided secondary data, and core variables were defined by reference to relevant theories. Descriptive statistics worked to read the distributions of variables and Pearson correlation analysis of identification of preliminary relationships was used. Findings indicated that there were strong positive relationships between audit committee independence financial expertise and an enhancement in the financial reporting. There was a positive strong connection between meeting frequency and the measures of corporate accountability. It was replicated using multivariate regression which depicted that frequency of meetings (p < 0.01) and financial expertise (p < 0.05) served as substantial predictors of financial reporting quality and subsequently less apt to induce restatements. These findings point towards the value of strengthening the composition of audit committees to deliver superior governance outcomes. Firms with financial literacy among members and regular gatherings of their audit committee personnel were more accountable and less prone to financial abnormalities. Such understandings have practical consequences on regulators and corporate boards, in the hope to streamline the inspection of auditing and the intentions of stakeholder confidences. International or sector-specific research can be included into this model in the future.

Keywords: Audit committee, financial reporting, corporate responsibility, financial expertise, financial literacy

Suggested Citation:

Majumder, Ruhul Quddus, Assessing the Impact of Audit Committees on Financial Data Reporting Quality and Corporate Accountability (July 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5376613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5376613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
N Fadzlyn , F M Isa , S Mohamad
Corporate Governance Practices Affecting Performance: A Case Study of Malaysian Elderly Care Centres NGOs
Contributions to Management Science , p. 55 - 65 Posted: 2023
Rizki Inmas Pratiwi , Hali , Andi Kusumawati
The Influence of Transparency, Governance, and Financial Accountability in Managing Financial Reporting in the Public Sector
Int. J. Educ. Life Sci , volume 2 , issue 10 , p. 1165 - 1180 Posted: 2024-10
M Khoiriyah , A Zarefar , U Afifah , V Oktari
THE ROLE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE IN CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE
Akurasi J. Stud. Akunt. dan Keuang , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 179 Posted: 2022
E A Al-Homaidi , A Ahmad , M Faozi , A Almaqtari , M Eissa , A Al-Homaidi
Impact of corporate governance mechanisms on financial reporting quality: Evidence from India
Asian J. Manag. Appl. Res , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 2230 - 8679 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
421
RANK
572,087
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies