Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Countering Political Risk with Board Appointments

39 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Hagit Levy

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Emanuel Zur

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Sae Young Yoon

Framingham State University

Date Written: July 16, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between firm-level political risk and corporate board structure, focusing on appointments of politically connected directors. We investigate whether the appointments of politically connected new directors are associated with idiosyncratic political risk, and mitigate the effects of political risk on firms' activities. Leveraging a firm-level political risk measure developed by Hassan et al. (2019), we find that firms manage political uncertainty by appointing politically connected individuals to their board, and that these appointments alleviate the negative effects of political risk on firms' activities. Our findings suggest that the type of political experience significantly influences board appointments, with federal experience being the most influential, but individuals with state-level experience holding political clout (proxied by swing state politicians) also appear to be able to provide beneficial advising during times of political uncertainty. Finally, our results indicate that the appointments incur a cost in the form of reduced monitoring.

Keywords: Political Risk, Board of Directors, Advising, Monitoring JEL: D8, E22, G34, M12, M14, M51 2

JEL Classification: D8, E22, G34, M12, M14, M51

Suggested Citation:

Levy, Hagit and Zur, Emanuel and Yoon, Sae Young, Countering Political Risk with Board Appointments (July 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
R B Adams
Learning to be a director: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 134 Posted: 2009
R B Adams , A C Akyol , P Verwijmeren
Director skill sets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 130 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 662 Posted: 2018
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
RANK
897,300
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies