Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Bank Examiners on Bank Risk Taking and Growth

48 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2025 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Mehdi Beyhaghi

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Jiyoung Chae

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond

Filippo Curti

Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond - Quantitative Supervision & Research

Jeffrey R. Gerlach

Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine the heterogeneity in bank examiner practices and its potential impact on the US banking sector. Our findings reveal that examiners vary in their access to private information and relative stringency, with their risk tolerance shifting in response to crises. We explore how this examiner heterogeneity influences bank holding company ratings. Our analysis demonstrates that the "examiner-specific effect" on ratings has significant implications for bank holding company risk-taking and investment decisions. We observe that stricter examinations are associated with reduced risk-taking in bank holding companies, but this is coupled with slower growth rates.

Keywords: Bank Examiner, Supervision, Regulation, Bank Rating, Risk Taking, Credit Supply

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Beyhaghi, Mehdi and Chae, Jiyoung and Curti, Filippo and Gerlach, Jeffrey R., The Impact of Bank Examiners on Bank Risk Taking and Growth (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Sumit Agarwal , David Lucca , Amit Seru , Francesco Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Paolo Angelini , Francesca Lotti , Andrea Passalacqua , Giovanni Soggia
The real effects of bank supervision: evidence from on-site bank inspections, SSRN Work Posted: 2021
Brad A Badertscher , Jeffrey J Burks , Peter D Easton
The market reaction to bank regulatory reports
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 686 - 731 Posted: 2018
Michael Barr
Review of the federal reserve's supervision and regulation of silicon valley bank Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
230
RANK
897,300
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies