Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance Management Systems in German Tax Audits - An Analysis of Practical Experiences

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 204

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025 - 12

English translation of "Tax Compliance Management Systeme in deutschen Betriebsfprüfungen - Eine Analyse praktischer Erfahrungen" published in Steuer und Wirtschaft (2024), 101(4). pp. 335-353

61 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025 Last revised: 5 Aug 2025

Kim Alina Schulz

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 29, 2025

Abstract

Recent regulatory changes and the adoption of the ‘DAC 7’ EU Directive have significantly increased the importance of Tax compliance management systems (Tax CMS) in German tax audits. Our interview-based study, which draws on the insights of experts from various sectors, including industry and commerce on the one hand side and tax advisors on the other hand side, reveals nuanced perspectives on the impact of Tax CMS on tax audits. Our results reveal that the number of Tax CMS in German firms has increased in recent years and that, in particular, the majority of large firms have implemented these control systems. From a firm’s perspective, there has been no discernible impact on the duration, scope, or focus of tax audits, nor the frequency of tax disputes or the number and size of tax refunds. However, tax practitioners in advisory firms report a slight positive change in the audit environment, with fewer tax disputes, and a more efficiency-driven approach to audit procedures, with an increase in process-oriented audits. These findings represent preliminary observations on the use and effectiveness of Tax CMS in tax audits. They provide early insights into the advantages and disadvantages of these systems. These findings are particularly relevant given the expected increasing role of Tax CMS in German tax audits, driven by ongoing regulatory developments. 

Keywords: tax compliance, compliance management systems, tax audits, Tax CMS, tax technology

JEL Classification: H21, H26, H32, H83

Suggested Citation:

Schulz, Kim Alina and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Tax Compliance Management Systems in German Tax Audits - An Analysis of Practical Experiences (July 29, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 204, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025 - 12, English translation of "Tax Compliance Management Systeme in deutschen Betriebsfprüfungen - Eine Analyse praktischer Erfahrungen" published in Steuer und Wirtschaft (2024), 101(4). pp. 335-353, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
542
RANK
759,678
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies