Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Equity Instruments: Does IFRS 9 Deter Gains-Trading or Long-Term Investments? 

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 206

67 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2025

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Clemens Lauer

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 29, 2025

Abstract

IFRS 9 significantly changed the accounting for equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI), most notably by eliminating the recycling of unrealized fair value gains and losses into net income upon realization. Under the new rules, banks must either recognize all fair value changes in the profit and loss (P&L) statement or exclude them entirely. The reform sparked political controversy grounded in the academic debate about the impact of accounting standards on real investments by firms. While standard-setters aimed to curtail incentives for gains trading and opportunistic earnings management, critics argued that the lack of recycling would discourage long-term equity holdings, harming sustainable investment. Using global data on IFRS 9 adoption by banks, this study examines whether and how the rules for gains realization impact banks' equity investments. We present three main findings. First, banks' equity investments did decline overall, particularly those previously classified as fair value through OCI. Second, the decline was most pronounced among banks with a record of gains trading and earnings management, and for instruments most suited to these practices. Third, banks' long-term equity investments shrank barely, if at all. Overall, our findings suggest that rules on the realization of unrealized gains matter for banks' investment decisions. However, the investment change is attributable to equity securities that were primarily used for gains trading and not held for strategic long-term objectives. This latter purported outcome rather served as a convenient political excuse to oppose accounting rules that constrain opportunistic earnings management.

Keywords: IFRS, Fair Value, Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), Financial institutions, Equity Securities

JEL Classification: F30, G21, G28, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Daske, Holger and Lauer, Clemens, Accounting for Equity Instruments: Does IFRS 9 Deter Gains-Trading or Long-Term Investments?  (July 29, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 206, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5379763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5379763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
J Abad , J Suarez
The procyclicality of expected credit loss provisions Posted: 2018
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Response of the Canadian Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) to the IASB's Exposure Draft Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
V V Acharya , N Mora
A crisis of banks as liquidity providers
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
RANK
805,600
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies