Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency and Real Effects of Climate Stress Tests for Banks

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 205

The Wharton School Research Paper

67 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2025

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Vincent Giese

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Gerrit von Zedlitz

University of Mannheim; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether microprudential climate stress tests affect banks' reporting choice, loan portfolios, and environmental performance. With heightened awareness and better data, we expect incentivized banks to expand transparency, adjust lending standards, and reduce their loan exposure to climate risks. Focusing on the 230 largest European banks from 2017 to 2022, we find that participants in supervisory climate stress tests significantly increase their transparency, mainly if they have previously shown commitment to climate issues, face outside ESG pressure, or are more exposed to climate risks. Corporate borrowers of such committed banks reduce their total and long-term loan financing and, in turn, display lower (fixed) assets and sales growth, but only if they are subject to high climate transition risks. In terms of aggregate loan portfolios, we find a shift from long-term to short-term maturities for committed banks but the opposite for the remaining stress-tested banks. The former also increase their climate performance along various dimensions. Our results suggest that, while on average we find no effects, supervisory stress tests can act as change agents and elicit feedback effects for banks facing strong climate-related incentives, impose funding and investment constraints on high-risk borrowers, but also trigger (unintended) substitution to less committed and less tightly regulated banks.

Keywords: Climate disclosures, Bank reporting, Bank lending, Bank oversight and regulation, Climate risk

JEL Classification: G15, G21, G32, M41, Q54, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Giese, Vincent and Hail, Luzi and von Zedlitz, Gerrit, Transparency and Real Effects of Climate Stress Tests for Banks (July 28, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 205, The Wharton School Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5379755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5379755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
V V Acharya , A N Berger , R A Roman
Lending Implications of U.S. Bank Stress Tests: Costs or Benefits
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 34 , p. 58 - 90 Posted: 2018
V V Acharya , R Berner , R Engle , H Jung , J Stroebel , X Zeng , Y Zhao
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 291 - 326 Posted: 2023
M A Aiello
Climate Supervisory Shocks and Bank Lending: Empirical Evidence from Microdata Posted: 2024-05-25
L Alix
Most Big Banks Say They're Ready for Climate Stress Tests Posted: 2021-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
256
RANK
334,632
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies