Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legitimately Puzzling Case of the Enduring Regulatory Appeal of Joint Audits

37 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2025

Javed Siddiqui

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School, Students

Christopher Humphrey

The University of Manchester

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to examine the ability of joint audits (JA) to sustain itself as a persistent regulatory reform agenda in the UK and, through this, to consider whether the regulatory support for JA is more indicative of a ‘self-interested’, regulatory desire for legitimation or a genuine commitment to take actions in the, broader, ‘public interest’. In order to capture comprehensively the recent regulatory imperative associated with the promotion of JA and its persistence as an available regulatory solution for audit market competition enhancements, the paper’s analysis is informed by Suchman’s (1995) depiction of legitimacy.  For the purpose of our archival analysis, we consider the various reports issued by regulatory and legislative bodies, namely, the FRC, the Office of Fair Trade (OFT), Competitions Commission (and its successor body, CMA), the House of Commons Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) committee, the House of Lords, and the responses of Big 4 and mid-tier accounting firms to the CMA consultations as key sources. Overall, the analysis presented in this paper demonstrates that despite its weaknesses in addressing issues relating to audit market concentration and competition, JA has sustained itself as an attractive as a regulatory solution mainly due to its ability to help regulators to make wider claims to legitimacy.

Keywords: Audit market competition, joint audits, Regulation, UK

Suggested Citation:

Siddiqui, Javed and Humphrey, Christopher, The Legitimately Puzzling Case of the Enduring Regulatory Appeal of Joint Audits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S Abidin , V Beattie , A Goodacre
Audit market structure, fees and choice in a period of structural change: Evidence from the UK -1998-2003
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 206 Posted: 2010
P Andre , J Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are joint audits associated with higher audit fees?
European Accounting Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2016
S Audousset-Coulier
Audit Fees in a Joint Audit Setting
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 377 Posted: 2014
V Beattie , A Goodacre , S Fearnley
And there were four: a study of UK audit market concentration-causes, consequences, and the scope for market adjustment
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 250 - 265 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies