Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognizing and Disclosing Tax Loss Carryforward under IAS in periods of Financial Crisis

26 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Evangelos Chytis

University of Ioannina

Date Written: January 01, 2025

Abstract

The study extends previous research by examining whether the recognition and disclosure of Deferred Tax Assets for Tax Loss Carryforward (DTA_TLC) under IFRS comply with IAS 12 requirements, especially in times of financial downturn. More specifically, it investigates whether and to what extent the firms' quality of audit, tax disclosure, and specific characteristics affect the recognition of DTA_TLC. The sample comprises the largest firms listed on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE), covering the period from 2005 to 2012, bracketing the outbreak of the financial crisis. Using a unique, hand-collected panel dataset and a multivariate Logit regression model, I find only partial compliance with the guidelines of IAS 12 in the recognition of DTA_TLC. The quality of tax disclosures and the selection of external auditors other than big auditing firms increase the probability of DTA_TLC recognition, while higher auditor independence and the type of audit report opinion seem to decrease it. JEL Classification: M41; H4.

Keywords: Deferred Tax assets, IAS 12, Tax Loss Carryforward, Financial Report Quality

Suggested Citation:

Chytis, Evangelos, Recognizing and Disclosing Tax Loss Carryforward under IAS in periods of Financial Crisis (January 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' Interpretation and Investors' Valuation of Tax Carryforwards*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
B Ayers
An Empirical Investigation of Its Incremental Value-Relevance Relative to APB No. 11
The Accounting Review , volume 109 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
W M Badenhorst , P H Ferreira
The Financial Crisis and the Value-relevance of Recognised Deferred Tax Assets
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 300 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
302
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies