Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Non-Performing Loans on the Profitability of Commercial Banks in Kenya

16 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Onderi Kennedy Isinta

MANGALORE UNIVERSITY

Prof. Muniraju

Mangalore University

Date Written: August 02, 2025

Abstract

This study examined the impact of non-performing loans on bank profitability, using the information asymmetry theory and the bad management hypothesis. This study used a descriptive research design to use secondary data from 31 commercial banks in Kenya over 9 years from 2014 to 2022. The study employed multiple regression analysis techniques and descriptive statistics to determine the impact of non-performing loans in banks in Kenya. Similarly, the Ordinary Least-Squares regression method was employed, followed by examining the Fixed Effects and Random Effects techniques. According to the study results, the profitability of commercial banks in Kenya is negatively impacted by higher levels of non-performing loans. Thus, the results supported the theories of information asymmetry and bad management. The study results have managerial and theoretical implications for managers and practitioners.

Keywords: Non-Performing Loans, Bank Profitability, Commercial Banks, Capital Adequacy

Suggested Citation:

Isinta, Onderi Kennedy and Muniraju, Prof., The Impact of Non-Performing Loans on the Profitability of Commercial Banks in Kenya (August 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Aliu , B Çollaku
Impact of Non-Performing Loans on Bank s Profitability: Empirical Evidence from Commercial Banks in Kosovo
Journal of Accounting Finance and Auditing Studies (JAFAS) , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 226 - 242 Posted: 2021
A S Alshebmi , M H Mohammad Adam , A M A Mustafa , M Thomran , O Fathelbab
E A
Assessing the non-performing loans and their effect on banks profitability: An empirical evidence from the Saudi Arabia banking sector
International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change , volume 11 , issue 8 , p. 69 - 93 Posted: 2020
N T Anh , D T Huong
Bank-Specific Factors Influencing the Profitability of Listed Commercial Banks in Vietnam Factores específicos de la banca que afectan la rentabilidad de los bancos comerciales que cotizan en bolsa en Vietnam , volume 16 , p. 469 - 488 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
200
RANK
864,457
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies