Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Perceptions of the "Big 4 Effect": Evidence from the World's Largest Customer-the U.S. Government

Journa of Accounting and Public Policy, forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025 Last revised: 21 Sep 2025

Tonni Xia

San Diego State University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

We explore the impact of Big 4 auditors on U.S. government contract allocation decisions. We find that contractors switching from non-Big 4 to Big 4 auditors see an average 0.70% increase in their share of a government agency's total awards (i.e., $3.20 million from each government agency each year), relative to those switching within non-Big 4 or Big 4 auditors. The effect is more pronounced (1) for contractors whose majority of awarded contracts are either cost-plus or competitive, where audit quality plays a more important role; and (2) for contractors whose switch to Big 4 auditors is not due to auditor resignations, which could compromise audit quality. Our findings hold after controlling for firm characteristics that potentially trigger an auditor switch and after conducting a batch of robustness tests. Collectively, the results suggest that the "Big 4 effect" exists in the U.S. government procurement market, a phenomenon undocumented in the literature.

Keywords: The "Big 4 Effect, " Customer Perceptions, Audit Quality, Auditor Change, U.S. Government Procurement Market

Suggested Citation:

Xia, Shijun and Zhou, Jian, Customer Perceptions of the "Big 4 Effect": Evidence from the World's Largest Customer-the U.S. Government (May 15, 2025). Journa of Accounting and Public Policy, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5382480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5382480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
A M Bauer , D Henderson , D P Lynch
Supplier internal control quality and the duration of customer-supplier relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 82 Posted: 2018
P Bajari , S Tadelis
Incentives versus transaction costs: A theory of procurement contracts
Rand journal of Economics , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 2001
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
280
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies