Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Racial Disparities in the Processing of Whistleblower Complaints

54 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Marco Errico

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Aneesh Raghunandan

Yale School of Management

Sinja Leonelli

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: August 07, 2025

Abstract

We examine disparities in regulators' processing of employee whistleblower complaints. We find that regulators are less likely to respond to complaints arising from facilities with a greater share of racial minority employees. The disparity is most apparent for facilities with a greater share of Black employees. We also document greater delays in the completion of inspections when the facility has a greater share of Black employees. These results are unlikely to reflect differences in the severity of complaints; the average fine assessed is higher for facilities with a greater share of Black employees. We find that disparities are more pronounced when regulators are resource-constrained and must use greater discretionary judgment over which complaints to investigate. Conversely, disparities attenuate when regulators are more exposed to racial or political diversity. Traditional mechanisms designed to protect whistleblowers, such as anonymity and union presence, do not mitigate the observed disparities. Finally, we show that facilities with a larger share of minority employees are more likely to experience adverse safety events following whistleblower complaints without regulatory response, leading to an estimated $27.5 million in excess injury-related costs. Collectively, our results highlight a previously unidentified friction in the employee whistleblowing process.

Keywords: Whistleblowing, Corporate misconduct, Regulatory enforcement, Regulatory discretion, Racial disparities, Racial bias, Diversity JEL Classification: G38, J78, M14, M46, M48

Suggested Citation:

Errico, Marco and Raghunandan, Aneesh and Leonelli, Sinja, Racial Disparities in the Processing of Whistleblower Complaints (August 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5383732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5383732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
G W Allport , K Clark , T F Pettigrew
The nature of prejudice , volume 2 , p. 59 - 82 Posted: 1954
F Andersson , J C Haltiwanger , M J Kutzbach , H O Pollakowski , D H Weinberg
Job displacement and the duration of joblessness: The role of spatial mismatch
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 100 , issue 2 , p. 203 - 218 Posted: 2018
B Argyle , S Indarte , B Iverson , C Palmer
Racial Disparities and Bias in Consumer Bankruptcy Posted: 2025
D Dobbie , W Yang , C S
Racial bias in bail decisions
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 133 , issue 4 , p. 1885 - 1932 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
RANK
627,127
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies