Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redefining the Management Accountant: Professional Identity and Skills in the Era of Sustainability Integration

29 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Olajide Dahunsi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Olumuyiwa Samuel Oladele

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Oluwamayowa Olarewaju

affiliation not provided to SSRN

NGOZI ODIAKA

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines how management accountants’ professional identities and skillsets are being redefined in response to the integration of sustainability within organizational control systems. Drawing on in-depth qualitative interviews with accountants, sustainability managers, and consultants in Sweden, Germany, and the Netherlands, the study explores the complex interplay of regulatory change, technological innovation, and evolving organizational expectations. The findings reveal that management accountants are increasingly adopting hybrid roles, acting as translators between financial and sustainability logics and developing new competencies in digitalization and cross-boundary collaboration. Jurisdictional boundaries are shown to be fluid and contested, shaped by both internal adaptation and external interventions. The study demonstrates that professional transformation is neither linear nor uniform, but is characterized by negotiation, ambiguity, and ongoing contestation. By synthesizing multiple theoretical perspectives, our study provides new insights into the drivers and dynamics of professional change at the sustainability frontier. The study concludes with practical recommendations for organizations and educators and calls for further research on the durability and evolution of hybrid professional roles in the context of sustainable business transformation.

Keywords: Sustainability accounting, Management control systems, Professional identity, Skillset transformation, Digitalization, Organizational change

Suggested Citation:

Dahunsi, Olajide and Oladele, Olumuyiwa Samuel and Olarewaju, Oluwamayowa and ODIAKA, NGOZI, Redefining the Management Accountant: Professional Identity and Skills in the Era of Sustainability Integration. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5383587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5383587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Abbott
The system of professions: An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
S Alsughayer
Role of ERP systems in management accounting in SMEs in Saudi Arabia
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 382 - 403 Posted: 2025
M Alvesson , K Sköldberg
Reflexive methodology: New vistas for qualitative research Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
173
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies