Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust in Banks and Borrower Behavior: Evidence from Supervisory Actions and Local Information Quality

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2025-102

68 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2025 Last revised: 20 Aug 2025

Samuel Chang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Rimmy E. Tomy

University of Chicago

Jizhou Wang

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: August 08, 2025

Abstract

We find that trust plays a significant role in retail borrowers' decisions to transact with banks, and that the local news media plays an important role in shaping this trust. We utilize bank enforcement actions publicized in the local news media as a shock to bank reputation that undermines consumers' trust in banks. Survey data indicate that enforcement actions are associated with significant declines in trust in banks and bankers. Using granular loan data from TransUnion that links retail borrowers to banks, we find that originated loans and new borrowers are of lower quality while an enforcement action is open. These effects are not present prior to the enforcement action, indicating that declining borrower and loan quality are not the reasons for enforcement. The shift towards lower-quality borrowers is more pronounced with declining survey-based trust measures and negative local news coverage. In contrast, borrower quality shows little change when local news is positive or conveys the emotion of trust, and in regions with no local news outlets. Our results highlight the news media's crucial role in contextualizing news and shaping consumers' trust in banks. Additional tests reveal that our findings are inconsistent with supply-side effects.

Keywords: Banking, Bank supervision, Consumer credit, Default, Delinquency, Enforcement actions, News deserts, Reputational costs, TransUnion, Trust in banks

JEL Classification: D12, E21, G20, G21, G38, M4, R22

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Samuel and Tomy, Rimmy and Wang, Jizhou, Trust in Banks and Borrower Behavior: Evidence from Supervisory Actions and Local Information Quality (August 08, 2025). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2025-102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5384682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5384682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
P M Abernathy
News deserts and ghost newspapers: Will local news survive? Posted: 2020
I Abramova , B Gipper , X Su
Shaking the faith: Global frauds and trust in capital markets Posted: 2024
K Allee , R Cating , C Rawson
No news is bad news: Local news intensity and firms' information environments
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2025
B An , R Bushman , A Kleymenova , R Tomy
Bank supervision and organizational capital: The case of minority lending
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , p. 505 - 549 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
RANK
541,838
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies