Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Cash Conversion Cycle On Profitability: An Analysis of FMCG Sector of Pakistan 

55 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Azhar ul Haque Sario

Independent

Date Written: July 19, 2019

Abstract

This thesis investigates the impact of the cash conversion cycle (CCC) on the profitability of Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) companies in Pakistan. The study categorizes firms into small, medium, and large based on their asset size to ensure an unbiased analysis. Using panel data from 14 companies between 2008 and 2017, the research employs a panel regression model. Profitability, the dependent variable, is measured by Return on Assets (ROA), while the independent variables include the cash conversion cycle and its components: average inventory period, average receivable period, and average payable period.

The findings indicate that for small firms, neither the CCC nor its components have a significant impact on profitability. In medium-sized firms, only the CCC shows a significant and inverse relationship with profit. For large FMCG firms, both the average inventory period and the CCC have a negative and significant impact on profitability.

Keywords: Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC), Profitability, FMCG Sector, Pakistan, Return on Assets (ROA), Average Inventory Period (AIP), Average Collection Period (ACP), Average Payment Period (APP), Panel Data, Regression Analysis, Firm Size

JEL Classification: H83, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sario, Azhar ul Haque, Impact of Cash Conversion Cycle On Profitability: An Analysis of FMCG Sector of Pakistan  (July 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5386164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5386164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
B Anna , G Zbigniew
The Influence of Working Capital Management on the Food Industry Enterprises Profitability
Journal of Contemporary Economics , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 68 - 81 Posted: 2011
O S Ademola
Working capital management and profitability of selected quoted food and beverages manufacturing firms in Nigeria
European Journal Of Accounting Auditing and Finance Research , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 10 - 21 Posted: 2014
B Bagchi , B Khamrui
Relationship between Working Capital Management and Profitability: A Study of Selected FMCG Companies in India
Business and Economics Journal , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2012
H Bashir , W Ahmed
Does efficient working capital management enhance profitability of Pakistani firms?
Journal of Management and Administrative Sciences Review , volume 2 , issue 6 , p. 715 - 720 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
208
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies