Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating for Biodiversity and Equity? The Performativity of Sustainability Reporting in the EU on Telecoupled Agri-Food Systems 

65 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Othmar Manfred Lehner

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Eva Maria Öhlinger

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Truc Thanh Van

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Theresia Harrer

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Biodiversity loss is one of the greatest risks facing our planet and its economies. The EU is taking a

leadership role by making sustainability, and specifically biodiversity, an integral part of how

companies must report, plan, and invest. But are these new rules working? Are they moving us beyond

check-box compliance and truly reshaping business practices, investment flows, and global value

chains? This report examines the early impacts and persistent challenges of the EU’s new sustainability

reporting regime, specifically on Biodiversity along the value chain.

Keywords: biodiversity, sustainability reporting, esrs, equity, performativity, value chain

Funder Statement

TcforBE is funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are, however, those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA) and cannot be held responsible for them.

Suggested Citation:

Lehner, Othmar Manfred and Öhlinger, Eva Maria and Van, Truc Thanh and Harrer, Theresia, Regulating for Biodiversity and Equity? The Performativity of Sustainability Reporting in the EU on Telecoupled Agri-Food Systems  (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5386166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5386166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
References
R Alkemade , L G J Van Bussel , S L Rodríguez , A M Schipper
Global biodiversity assessments need to consider mixed multifunctional land-use systems
Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability Posted: 2022
J Atkins , M Macpherson
Extinction Governance, Finance and Accounting : Implementing a Species Protection Action Plan for the Financial Markets Posted: 2022
S B Banerjee
Embedding sustainability across the organization: A critical perspective , volume 10 , p. 719 - 731 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies