Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of R&D Sales Tax Exemptions on Firm Investment and Innovation

56 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2025

Jennifer Luchs-Nunez

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - College of Business

Stephen A. Stewart

Trinity University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 05, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the effects of sales tax exemptions for research and development (R&D) purchases on firm investment and innovation. Using a stacked cohort difference-in-differences design, we exploit the staggered introduction of R&D sales tax exemptions across states to identify their effect on firm investment and patents. While we do not find broad evidence of increased R&D expense or capital expenditures following new R&D sales tax exemptions, we find a significant positive effect on capital expenditures among high-tech and manufacturing firms. Evidence suggests that at least a portion of these capital expenditures are R&D-related. However, we do not find a corresponding increase in firms’ patenting activity, and even find evidence of reduced patent quantity among high-tech and manufacturing firms. Aggregate state-level tests are generally consistent with firm-level results. Overall, our findings suggest that R&D sales tax exemptions are partially effective in promoting investment among certain firms, but do not necessarily result in increased innovative outputs.

Keywords: State tax, Sales and use tax, Non-income tax, Innovation, Research and development, Patents

JEL Classification: H25, H71

Suggested Citation:

Luchs-Nunez, Jennifer and Stewart, Stephen A., The Effects of R&D Sales Tax Exemptions on Firm Investment and Innovation (August 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5388915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5388915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Qualified R&D equipment was eligible for a refund of 50% of sales tax during the period 7/1/05 -6/30/07
Qualified R&D purchases are exempt from Missouri state sales and use tax and local use tax. Until 1/1/23, local sales tax still applies if purchased from a Missouri vendor
Taxpayers can claim either the sales tax exemption or the franchise tax credit for R&D, but not both
Texas repealed the sales tax exemption beginning , volume 1 Posted: 2026
California exempts qualified R&D purchases from 4.1785% (3.9375%) state sales tax. Remaining state, local, and district taxes still apply during both periods
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
RANK
848,823
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies