Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Specialization and Debt Contract Terms

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/130

49 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025 Last revised: 9 Sep 2025

Junqiang Ke

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: June 04, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether and how lenders use specialization to manage credit risk due to borrowers' regulatory exposure. We show that borrowers receive lower interest spreads from lenders that have previously lent to their regulatory peers than from other lenders. This relationship is more pronounced for borrowers who experience higher regulatory exposure, with worse information environments, lower accounting quality, and higher economic and political uncertainty. We further provide evidence that firms are more likely to borrow from lenders with regulatory specialization than from other lenders. Overall, our findings are consistent with lender specialization helping lending parties to manage the uncertainty that borrowers' regulatory exposure introduces.

Keywords: Regulatory Exposure, Debt Contracting, Lender Specialization

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Junqiang and Ma, Zhiming and Morris, Arthur and Stice, Derrald, Regulatory Specialization and Debt Contract Terms (June 04, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/130, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5388175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5388175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
B N Ashraf , Y Shen
Economic policy uncertainty and banks' loan pricing
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 44 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
RANK
718,946
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies