Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The LIBOR-SOFR Transition and the Use of Financial Covenants

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-228

49 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2025 Last revised: 9 Sep 2025

Fred Asante

Cornell University

Arthur Morris

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 06, 2025

Abstract

Most credit agreements specify interest rates relative to a base rate, which allows interest payments to adjust to market conditions without the need to renegotiate the contract. The London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was the standard base rate, until a combination of changes in the credit market and high-profile scandals led central banks around the world to develop alternatives and between 2021 and 2023 U.S. credit markets transitioned to Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). The LIBOR-SOFR transition directly impacted lenders' ability to price credit risk. We explore how debt contract terms are used to manage this transition. To do this we, first, construct a loan path panel from the set of loans issued with LIBOR base rates and compare changes in the terms of loans that adopt SOFR after origination to those that do not. Here we find that loans that transition from LIBOR to SOFR use more financial covenants, and that this increase is driven by performance, rather than capital, covenants. Next, we compare changes in the terms of loans that transition from LIBOR to SOFR to those that are issued with a SOFR base rate. In this setting we find a similar association between financial covenant use and SOFR adoption. When we estimate the dynamic effects of switching to SOFR rather than remaining with LIBOR, we find that the increase in covenant use is limited to the two years after the switch, suggesting that the uncertainty being managed with these contract terms is transient. We believe that this analysis presents two unique insights. First, this is evidence on how markets use non-price mechanisms to manage uncertainty inherent to the transition. Second, this expands the focus of the literature from it's focus on spreads to include the entire debt contract.

Keywords: Credit spreads, Reference rate, Debt contracting, LIBOR, SOFR

Suggested Citation:

Asante, Fred and Morris, Arthur and Donovan, John, The LIBOR-SOFR Transition and the Use of Financial Covenants (May 06, 2025). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5389579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5389579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
Arrc
The arrc selects a broad repo rate as its recommended alternative reference rate
Second report of the alternative reference rates committee , p. 2025 - 2027 Posted: 2017
Arrc
Arrc recommendations regarding more robust fallback language for new originations of libor syndicated loans , p. 2025 - 2027 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
RANK
826,677
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies