Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extreme Weather and Indigenous Peoples: Impacts on Business Activity

65 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2025

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Martien Jan Peter Lubberink

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Tom Stannard

University of Otago

Date Written: June 16, 2025

Abstract

Whereas numerous studies document the impacts of climate change on business activity, evidence on how it aOects the people running those businesses-who may come from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds-remains mixed and not well understood. This study investigates the economic impact of extreme weather events (EWEs) on business activity in New Zealand, with a focus on businesses in Māori and non-Māori communities. Using a novel combination of datasets, including up to 15 years of monthly business sales, meteorological data, demographic statistics, and ancestral geographic markers, we examine how extreme hot and cold temperature, rainfall, and wind events influence sales at the micro level, across over 2,000 statistical area units (SA2s). Extreme heat EWEs significantly reduce business sales, with an average monthly decline of 1.77% and an average annual loss per business unit of $US 23,390 (standard deviation $US 19,189). This eOect follows a non-linear, hump-shaped pattern, intensifying above 23°C. However, despite well documented socioeconomic disparities, Māori and non-Māori populations exhibit virtually identical business responses to EWEs after controlling for location and socioeconomic disparities. This reveals that Indigenous identification alone does not shape business vulnerability to climate-related disruptions. Our findings provide new insights into climate adaptation, Indigenous economic resilience, and sustainable development. They underscore the need for targeted climate policies that address broad business vulnerabilities, rather than directing resources solely based on ethnic or cultural characteristics.*

Keywords: Extreme weather, Indigenous peoples, Business impact, Ancestral knowledge, New Zealand Māori, Copernicus weather data

JEL Classification: G14, Q51, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Lubberink, Martien Jan Peter and Stannard, Tom, Extreme Weather and Indigenous Peoples: Impacts on Business Activity (June 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5390821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5390821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Addoum , D Ng , A Ortiz-Bobea
Temperature shocks and establishment sales
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1331 - 1366 Posted: 2020
M D Agnew , J E Thornes
The weather sensitivity of the UK food retail and distribution industry
Meteorological Applications , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 147 Posted: 1995
G S Aikenhead , M Ogawa
Indigenous knowledge and science revisited
Cultural Studies of Science Education , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 539 - 620 Posted: 2007-07-01
J Añel , M Fernández-González , X Labandeira , X Lopez-Otero , L De , Torre Ramos
Impact of cold waves and heat waves on the energy production sector
Atmosphere , volume 8 Posted: 2017-10-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
124
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies