Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Stickiness and Opportunistic Insider Trading

49 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2025

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Mahmud Hossain

Clark Atlanta University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines whether and how managers opportunistically manage costs to enhance insider trading profits. We hypothesize that prior to stock sales, self-serving managers reduce costs to inflate earnings and boost stock prices, while before stock purchases, they maintain higher costs to depress earnings and lower stock prices. These adjustments create an asymmetry that exacerbates or reduces cost stickiness—a phenomenon documented in the literature—where costs tend to increase more when sales rise than they decrease when sales fall. Using the classification method from Cohen, Malloy, and Pomorski (2012), we distinguish opportunistic from routine insider trades. Our results indicate that cost stickiness decreases prior to opportunistic sales and increases before opportunistic purchases. These patterns are robust across multiple definitions of insider trades and alternative measures of cost stickiness. Importantly, strong corporate governance mitigates the relationship between cost behavior and insider trading gains, while financial opacity amplifies it. The effects are particularly pronounced for trades executed by CEOs and CFOs. Our findings contribute to the literature on asymmetric cost behavior and real earnings management by demonstrating that managerial discretion over cost adjustments can be timed to maximize private trading profits—raising important implications for regulators and corporate governance.

Keywords: Cost stickiness, inside trading, managerial opportunism, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Darrough, Masako N. and Habib, Ahsan and Hossain, Mahmud, Cost Stickiness and Opportunistic Insider Trading. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5392652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5392652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
N Agarwal
Cost stickiness and stock price delay
European Accounting Review , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 855 - 879 Posted: 2024
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
144
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies