Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Wake-Up Call for Climate Brownness: Consequences of Stock Price Crashes

52 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2025

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Jamal A. Nazari

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business

Ehsan Poursoleyman

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business

Date Written: November 28, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the consequences of stock price crashes on corporate long-term strategies, particularly climate (or environmental) reporting and performance. Contrary to conventional expectations that short-term survival mode following a crash forces companies to abandon long-term strategies, we hypothesize that crashed companies are incentivized to go green to signal the firm’s resilience and prospects, attract long-term investors, and build a reputation as protection against future crashes. Employing a difference-in-differences design based on realized stock price crashes, we document significant increases in (1) climate disclosures, (2) carbon emission reductions, and (3) product innovation among affected firms. Crucially, our nuanced analysis reveals that this effect is driven exclusively by firms with prior negative climate externalities (i.e., brown firms). In contrast, firms with positive prior externalities (i.e., green firms) show even weakly negative post-crash changes in climate strategies. Overall, we demonstrate that although a financial crash brings substantial financial losses to the company and its investors, it can act as a wake-up call for brown companies and lead to strategically positive consequences.

Keywords: Brownness, Climate Disclosure, Climate Performance, Financial Constraints, Institutional Ownership, Reputation, Stock Price Crash

JEL Classification: D25, D81, G32, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Nazari, Jamal A. and Poursoleyman, Ehsan, A Wake-Up Call for Climate Brownness: Consequences of Stock Price Crashes (November 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5392551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5392551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
B K Adhikari
Causal effect of analyst following on corporate social responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 41 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 2016
H Amiraslani , K V Lins , H Servaes , A Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2023
Z An , D Li , J Yu
Firm crash risk, information environment, and speed of leverage adjustment
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 31 , p. 132 - 151 Posted: 2015
D Ardia , K Bluteau , K Boudt , K Inghelbrecht
Climate change concerns and the performance of green vs. brown stocks
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 12 , p. 7607 - 7632 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
140
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies