Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Transformation and Information Disclosure Violations: Evidence from China

46 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2025

Mingxia Chen

Hunan Automotive Engineering Vocational University

Boshi Tian

Hunan University

Abstract

While digital transformation enhances organizational competitiveness, it simultaneously increases information disclosure violation risk. This study empirically investigates the impact and underlying mechanisms of digital transformation on information disclosure violations, utilizing a comprehensive sample of ChiNext market enterprises in China from 2010 to 2023. The results reveal that digital transformation significantly elevates information disclosure violation tendency, a relationship that remains robust across a range of empirical tests and exhibits substantial heterogeneity across various corporate governance dimensions. In particular, the risk is further amplified by factors such as the degree of financing constraints, firm loss status, the presence of directors, supervisors, and senior executives holding concurrent positions in shareholder units, and the extent of equity checks and balances degree. Mechanism analysis indicates that digital transformation drives information disclosure violations through both managerial opportunism and heightened performance pressure. These findings offer important implications for regulatory agencies seeking to mitigate information disclosure risks in the context of ongoing digitalization.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, Information disclosure violation, Text analysis of annual reports, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Mingxia and Tian, Boshi, Digital Transformation and Information Disclosure Violations: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5393010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5393010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
D Adhariani , E Du Toit
Readability of sustainability reports: evidence from Indonesia
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 621 - 636 Posted: 2020
A A Aljughaiman , T H Nguyen , V Q Trinh , A Du
The Covid-19 outbreak, corporate financial distress and earnings management
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 88 Posted: 2023
Z Bai , Y Ban , H Hu
Banking competition and digital transformation
Finance Research Letters , volume 61 Posted: 2024
M J Benner , J Waldfogel
Changing the channel: Digitization and the rise of "middle tail
strategies. Strategic Management Journal , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 264 - 287 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
187
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies