Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Without a Standard: The Iasb's Inertia on Cryptocurrencies

37 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2025

Andrea Rey

University of Naples Federico II

Alessia Galdiero

University of Naples Federico II

Yaismir Rivera

Universidad del Valle

Abstract

This study examines how constituents have responded to the development of IFRS regarding the accounting treatment of cryptocurrency holdings. Despite the growing relevance of cryptocurrencies in financial markets, no dedicated IFRS currently addresses their unique features. The IFRS Interpretations Committee’s 2019 tentative agenda decision suggested applying either IAS 2 or IAS 38, while explicitly excluding IAS 32. This IASB’s position has remained unmodified since 2019, prompting concerns about regulatory inertia.Using a qualitative content analysis grounded in Institutional Theory and legitimacy based on Suchman’s(1995) framework, the study analyzes the 23 comment letters (CLs) submitted during the public consultation. The research finds widespread opposition to both IAS 2 and IAS 38, with respondents using both conceptual and economic arguments indiscriminately. Some respondents even advocated for treatment under IAS 32 Financial Instruments, despite the IASB explicitly ruling it out. Then, the study identifies that respondents employed pragmatic, moral, and cognitive arguments to support or contest the IASB’s approach. These rhetorical strategies reflect deeper concerns about transparency and institutional legitimacy.The study concludes that the lack of a tailored accounting standard for cryptocurrencies not only reduces the usefulness of financial reporting but also challenges the IASB’s legitimacy as a responsive global standard setter.

Keywords: Cryptocurrencies, Legitimacy, Due Process, Institutional Theory, Lobbying, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Rey, Andrea and Galdiero, Alessia and Rivera, Yaismir, Accounting Without a Standard: The Iasb's Inertia on Cryptocurrencies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5393549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5393549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
A Akanbi
Financial Reporting and Accounting Treatment of Crypto Assets: Professional Accountants Perspectives
International Journal of Accounting, Finance and Risk Management , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2024
E Akyildirim , T Conlon , S Corbet , J W Goodell
Understanding the FTX exchange collapse: A dynamic connectedness approach
Finance Research Letters , volume 53 Posted: 2023
J Black
Constructing and contesting legitimacy and accountability in polycentric regulatory regimes
Regulation & Governance , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 164 Posted: 2008
M Blahušiaková
Accounting for holdings of cryptocurrencies in the Slovak republic: Comparative analysis
Contemporary Economics , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 31 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
798,750
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies