Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working from Home After Hours? Right to Disconnect Laws, Firm Profitability and Employee Work-Life Balance

52 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2025 Last revised: 19 Aug 2025

Yuye Ding

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Zhuoying Niu

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

Telecommuting technologies have enabled widespread remote work but have also made it easier for employees to be contacted outside normal working hours, blurring the boundary between work and personal life. Many countries have adopted right to disconnect (RTD) laws that allow employees to disengage from work-related communications after their regular hours without facing negative consequences. This study examines the consequences of RTD laws by using a sample of firms in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. Our difference-in-differences analyses find a significant positive effect of RTD laws on firm profitability. Further analyses are consistent with the higher firm profitability resulting from an increase in employee productivity. We also find that enforcement mechanisms (e.g., fines for non-compliance and dispute resolution guidance) and labor market conditions moderate the effect of RTD laws on firm profitability. In addition, using Glassdoor reviews for a sample of Canadian firms, we find a significant increase in employee satisfaction with work-life balance in Ontario after the province adopted its RTD law. Overall, our study contributes to the ongoing debate over RTD laws by documenting significant benefits of such policies for both firms and employees.

Keywords: Right to Disconnect, Firm Performance, Employee Wellbeing, Remote Work

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Yuye and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Niu, Zhuoying, Working from Home After Hours? Right to Disconnect Laws, Firm Profitability and Employee Work-Life Balance (July 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5394611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5394611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
S Addas , A Pinsonneault
E-mail interruptions and individual performance: is there a silver lining?
MIS Quart , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 381 - 405 Posted: 2018
S Affinito , C Belinda , T Kundro
Our bosses tell us to unplug from work. We don't believe they mean it
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2024-01-28
M Aguiar , E Hurst
Measuring trends in leisure: The allocation of time over five decades. Quart
J. Econom , volume 122 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1006 Posted: 2007
C G Aksoy , J M Barrero , N Bloom , S J Davis , M Dolls , P Zarate
Working from home around the world
Brook. Pap. Econ. Act , volume 2022 , issue 2 , p. 281 - 360 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
RANK
472,791
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies