Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Workforce Mobility and Corporate Misconduct: The Governance Effects of Noncompete Agreements 

57 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2025

Kentaro Asai

Kyoto University

Nhan Le

Australian National University

Qianru Zhang

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines how cross-state variation in the enforceability of noncompete agreements (NCAs) influences corporate misconduct at the establishment level. We find that stricter NCA enforcement significantly reduces misconduct, with the deterrent effect amplified when labor turnover is more costly and weakened in industries where labor is easily substituted by technology. Further analysis suggests that reduced labor mobility and heightened unemployment risk serve as stability and discipline mechanisms that curb misconduct. Overall, these findings highlight the critical role of workforce mobility in shaping firm conduct and ethics, uncovering an unintended consequence of NCA enforceability and offering new insights into the governance implications of labor market regulation.

Keywords: Noncompetes, Labor Mobility, Corporate Misconduct

Suggested Citation:

Asai, Kentaro and Le, Nhan and Zhang, Qianru, Workforce Mobility and Corporate Misconduct: The Governance Effects of Noncompete Agreements  (August 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5395440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies