Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attention To Retention: The Informativeness Of Insiders' Decision To Retain Shares

Tuck School of Business Working Paper Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Gabriel Voelcker

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

I show that corporate insiders' decision to retain shares is pervasive and informative about future firm performance. Insiders file Form 144 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to report their intentions to introduce unregistered shares into their firm's public float. However, the form is not binding-insiders can legally choose to not follow through with a proposed sale at virtually no cost. I document that insiders' retaining shares is pervasive: for as much as 36.2% of the proposed sales, insiders choose to retain at least some of the shares (i.e., "Retentions"). Retentions are associated with a 4.0% increase in annualized returns relative to completing the sale, and this effect increases when insiders deviate from recurrent trading plans and strategically delay disclosing the intention to sell. I also document that Retentions are gradually incorporated into prices, potentially imposing a temporary deadweight loss on market participants. Collectively, the evidence on Retentions highlights a pervasive, informative and untimely signal of corporate insiders' trading decisions.

Keywords: insider trading, proposed sales, retentions, unregistered shares, reporting timeliness

Suggested Citation:

Voelcker, Gabriel, Attention To Retention: The Informativeness Of Insiders' Decision To Retain Shares (August 18, 2025). Tuck School of Business Working Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5395897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies