Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG, Bank Debt and Firm Value: A Signalling Perspective

Posted: 27 Aug 2025 Last revised: 18 Aug 2025

Gabriel de la Fuente

University of Valladolid - Department of Financial Economics and Accounting

Pilar Velasco

Universidad de Valladolid

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper delves into the influence of bank debt in shaping the relationship between environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance and a firm’s value. As a result of the superior informational and monitoring functions of bank borrowers in their lending relationships, we argue that a firm’s degree of bank debt might signal the genuineness of its ESG performance. We empirically test this signalling role on a sample of U.S. publicly traded companies over 2010–2018. Our results provide evidence that bank debt improves the value effect of ESG performance. We find that the signalling effect of bank debt is stronger in companies with lower tangible collateral, where the need for banks to screen and monitor them is higher. Our findings are robust to controlling for contextual factors that may affect the signalling relevance of bank debt, such as the visibility and informational asymmetries as provided by analysts’ activity, or the difference between green and brown industries, as well as a series of alternative econometric specifications, including alternative ESG performance measures, endogeneity tests, and propensity score matching.

Keywords: ESG, CSR, SDGs, Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainable Development Goals, Bank Debt, Signalling Theory, Firm Value

Funder Statement

This work has been supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities [Project reference PID2020-114797GB-I00 funded by MICIU/AEI/10.13039/501100011033, and project reference PID2023-150140NA-I00 funded by MCIU /AEI /10.13039/501100011033 / FEDER, UE], and by the Recognized Research Group in Finance and Accounting at the University of Valladolid.

Suggested Citation:

de la Fuente-Herrero, Gabriel and Velasco, Pilar, ESG, Bank Debt and Firm Value: A Signalling Perspective (August 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395601
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
94
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies