Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Relative Performance Evaluation Affects Accounting Conservatism: A Tournament Perspective

47 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2025

Xunzhuo Xi

City University of Macau

Feng Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kevin Ow Yong

Singapore Institute of Technology

Desmond Chun Yip Yuen

University of Macau

Abstract

We investigate whether the relative performance evaluation (RPE) in compensation contracts affects firms’ conservative financial reporting. Using a propensity score matching approach, we show that accounting-based RPE firms exhibit less timely loss recognition than non-RPE and equity-based RPE firms. In addition, we find firms that performed poorly in the earlier years of the performance measurement period delay loss recognition to exceed their peers’ performance. Thus, we document that less conservative reporting enables firms to meet or barely surpass peer performance to win the tournament. We also find that the negative association between RPE usage and accounting conservatism is more pronounced when less capable CEOs’ experienced a decrease in external job opportunities after adopting the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine. Overall, our findings offer new insights into the consequences of RPE usage and provide further evidence that compensation contracting is a determinant of accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Relative performance evaluation, Accounting conservatism, tournament incentive

Suggested Citation:

Xi, Xunzhuo and Tang, Feng and Yong, Kevin Ow and Yuen, Desmond Chun Yip, How Relative Performance Evaluation Affects Accounting Conservatism: A Tournament Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5396009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5396009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
M Badia , M Duro , F Penalva , S G Ryan
Debiasing the measurement of conditional conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , p. 1221 - 1259 Posted: 2021
R Ball , S Kothari , V V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies