Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG, and the Purpose of the Corporation

34 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2025

Sanjai Bhagat

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

The modern corporation has been an enormously productive societal and organizational invention. Large corporate organizations have figured prominently in the economic growth in the industrial world of the past century. Core ideas of the corporate construct, including respect for private property rights within the framework of the rule of law, has lifted billions of individuals around the globe in recent decades from poverty toward middle-income, and decreased income inequality.

What has guided corporations to enhance growth and human well-being? In recent decades, as Milton Friedman argued, the contemporary corporate objective was encapsulated in the shareholder primacy viewpoint which argued for maximizing the company’s long-term shareholder value, while conforming to applicable laws and regulations. Recently, the Business Roundtable’s Statement of the Purpose of the Corporation commits the board to other stakeholders as well — including customers, employees, suppliers, and communities the company operates in. There are two important problems with this stakeholderism paradigm.

First, stakeholderism suffers from internal inconsistencies. For example, recently, GM closed several auto plants manufacturing gasoline/diesel vehicles in Michigan and Ohio laying off thousands of workers. These plants were later retrofitted to manufacture electric vehicles, but employed many fewer workers. How should GM managers consider the trade-off between jobs and supposedly environment-friendly vehicles, if not for the underlying discipline of long-term shareholder value?

The second practical challenge of stakeholderism is the problem for shareholders (through the board of directors of a company) in providing a clear directive to corporate managers, and then holding them accountable to it. Under stakeholderism, almost any management expenditure of corporate resources, short of outright fraud, can be justified as consistent with addressing the priorities of some stakeholder group. Hence, the lack of managerial accountability becomes a problem.

Keywords: Stakeholder, ESG, Shareholder Value, Carbon Emission, Green Energy, ESG Investing

Declaration of Interest

I have no conflict of interest related to this paper.

JEL Classification: G00, G3

Suggested Citation:

Bhagat, Sanjai, ESG, and the Purpose of the Corporation (August 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5396200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5396200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
195
RANK
708,207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies