Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Shareholders Vs. Stakeholders?

Value-Based Management Sophistication, Corporate Sustainability, and Financial Performance

44 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Niklas Kister

Ruhr University of Bochum

Thorsten Knauer

Ruhr University of Bochum

Friedrich Sommer

University of Bayreuth

Michael Wiegerling

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: October 10, 2023

Abstract

Shareholder and stakeholder orientations are often portrayed as opposites, often rooted in abstract debates and analyses. We challenge this assumption by moving to the implementation level of management concepts and instruments. We hypothesize a positive association between value-based management (VBM) sophistication as an instrument of shareholder orientation and corporate sustainability performance (CSP) as a prominent result of stakeholder orientation. We further predict that deeply ingrained VBM systems and CSP positively interact in their association with financial performance, i.e., accounting and capital market performance. Drawing on a hand-collected VBM dataset with more than 2,500 European firm years from 2005 to 2020, we find support for our predictions. We split the sample into different subperiods and conclude that VBM sophistication can foster trend identification and help implement voluntary initiatives that are beneficial from the accounting performance perspective. Regarding capital market performance, the results imply that both VBM sophistication and high CSP levels entail certain risks that mutually mitigate each other, especially in volatile periods, and their combination is accompanied by higher capital market performance. On the abstract level, we conclude that shareholder and stakeholder orientations can coexist and even be complementary.

Keywords: Value-based Management, Corporate Sustainability Performance, Shareholder Value, Stakeholder Theory, Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Kister, Niklas and Knauer, Thorsten and Sommer, Friedrich and Wiegerling, Michael,

Shareholders Vs. Stakeholders?

Value-Based Management Sophistication, Corporate Sustainability, and Financial Performance

(October 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5398571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5398571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
123
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies