Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Executive Turnover Affects Earnings Announcement Disclosure Content and Formatting Choices

60 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2025

Jeremiah W. Bentley

University of Oklahoma - School of Accounting

Lars Knorren

Tilburg University

Máté Széles

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 20, 2025

Abstract

We examine how individual executives influence content and formatting in earnings announcements, a critical disclosure channel in capital markets. While prior research extensively focuses on the demand side of earnings announcements, the production process remains underexplored. Using a sample of 177,668 quarterly earnings announcements, including 4,835 firm-quarters with CEO appointments and 6,982 firm-quarters with CFO appointments, we find that both CEOs and CFOs significantly shape earnings announcement content and formatting, with CFOs playing a more dominant role. Both new CEOs and new CFOs initiate new disclosure and formatting practices; however, the decision to discontinue them rests primarily with the CFO. New CEOs are more likely to influence earnings announcements disclosure if they are hired after negative firm performance. In contrast, CFOs influence disclosure regardless of prior performance. Both CEOs and CFOs influence top-line and bottom-line metric disclosures, such as revenue and earnings, while CFOs appear to have the primary influence on the disclosure of other metrics, such as EBIT and operating cashflow. The impact of new executives is more pronounced if they are external hires, who partially transfer disclosure practices from their prior firms. These effects are immediate, suggesting that long tenure is not necessary for imprinting disclosure styles. These findings underscore the significant role individual executives play in shaping how their firms communicate financial performance to markets, as well as the differential disclosure responsibilities held by CEOs and CFOs.

Keywords: Disclosure Characteristics, Formatting, Voluntary Disclosure, Earnings Announcements, Textual Analysis, Executive Turnover, Managerial Style

JEL Classification: J24, J63, K22, M12, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Bentley, Jeremiah W. and Knorren, Lars and Széles, Máté, How Executive Turnover Affects Earnings Announcement Disclosure Content and Formatting Choices (August 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5398811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5398811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
RANK
906,046
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies