Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping the Narrative: The Role of Organisational Capital in Management Discussion and Analysis (Md&A) Tone

46 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2025

Md Samsul Alam

University of Derby

Thomas Allen

De Montfort University

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Yan Wang

Nottingham Business School

Abstract

We investigate the association between organisational capital (OC) and the tone of the Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section in US firms’ 10-K reports. Using a sample of 31,239 firm-year observations from 2001 to 2021, we find that OC is significantly positively associated with MD&A tone, consistent with the resource-based view (RBV) and agency theory. This finding remains robust across a battery of robustness tests, including alternative tone measures and various endogeneity tests. Furthermore, using the sudden departure of the CEO as an exogenous shock to OC, our difference-in-differences (DiD) analysis reveals a significant increase in the use of negative tone in the year following the CEO's departure. Our cross-sectional analysis shows that the positive relationship between OC and MD&A tone is more pronounced for firms with inefficient monitoring, high information asymmetry, and poor financial performance. In addition, we demonstrate that firms with higher OC and a positive M&D tone exhibit higher financial performance. Taken together, our findings suggest that organizational culture plays a significant role in shaping the tone of MD&A disclosures.

Keywords: Organisational capital, Tone management, Management discussion and analysis (MD&A), Resource-based view (RBV), Agency theory, Monitoring intensity

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Md Samsul and Allen, Thomas and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth and Wang, Yan, Shaping the Narrative: The Role of Organisational Capital in Management Discussion and Analysis (Md&A) Tone. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5402423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5402423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Z Alalwani , G A Mousa
Optimistic disclosure tone in corporate annual reporting and financial performance
2020 International Conference on Decision Aid Sciences and Application (DASA) , p. 1128 - 1133 Posted: 2020-11
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , N Bishara , J Thewissen , W Torsin
Managerial career concerns and the content of corporate disclosures: An analysis of the tone of earnings press releases
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 72 Posted: 2020
P D Astuti , L K Datrini , A Chariri
Understanding the antecedents and consequences of sustainable competitive advantage: testing intellectual capital and organizational performance
Economies , volume 11 , issue 4 Posted: 2023
N Attig , S Cleary
Organizational capital and investment-cash flow sensitivity: The effect of management quality practices
Financial Management , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 504 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies