Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Cost of Firm Complexity: Evidence from Stock Liquidity

36 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2025

Sanghak Choi

Yonsei University - Mirae Campus

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of firm complexity on stock liquidity by employing a novel firm complexity measure introduced by Loughran and McDonald (2024). Firm complexity, which arises from diverse operations, intricate organizational structures, and opaque financial disclosures. It also elevates the difficulty and cost of processing firm-specific information. This increases information asymmetry and impairs liquidity in capital markets. The analysis reveals a strong negative association between firm complexity and liquidity. The results also show that this relationship is moderated by firm-specific and institutional factors. External monitoring mechanisms help alleviate the negative effects of complexity, while financial constraints and limited investor recognition intensify them. Additionally, financial reporting complexity, when present in already complex firms, appears to facilitate investor understanding and improve liquidity. These findings underscore firm complexity as a critical aspect of the information environment that influences trading behavior and market efficiency.

Keywords: firm complexity, stock liquidity, information asymmetry, financial Reporting, market efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Sanghak, The Hidden Cost of Firm Complexity: Evidence from Stock Liquidity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5402420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5402420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
D Ardia , E Guidotti , T A Kroencke
Efficient estimation of bid-ask spreads from open, high, low, and close prices
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 161 Posted: 2024
B Baik , M F Johnson , K Kim , K Yu
Organization complexity, financial reporting complexity, and firms' information environment. Financial reporting complexity, and firms' information environment Posted: 2023-03-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies