Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate ESG Greenwashing on Financial Reporting Quality

94 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

shuangpeng zhang

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Wang Nuanxin

Shandong Technology and Business University

Peigong Li

Shanghai Lixin University of Accounting and Finance

Umeair Shahzad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

As China implements its "dual carbon" development agenda, it has emphasized corporate sustainability, often assessed using environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosures. However, a lack of standardized reporting and independent verification means the trustworthiness of these reports is questionable, as companies have exaggerated their ESG efforts in some cases. In this context, the present research examined the influence of ESG “greenwashing” on the financial reporting quality (FRQ) of A-share listed companies in China during the period from 2016 to 2021. The results show that higher levels of greenwashing in ESG reports were associated with increased real earnings management, thereby reducing FRQ. However, this negative impact was mitigated under stricter auditing, a higher proportion of long-term institutional investors, and lower financing constraints. Robustness and endogeneity tests confirmed the validity of these findings. The research highlights how ESG greenwashing exacerbates earnings management and undermines FRQ while identifying governance mechanisms to mitigate these effects. By establishing a link between ESG information quality and FRQ, this study provides valuable insights for identifying and addressing ESG greenwashing, contributing to the broader discussion of corporate sustainability and accountability under the "dual carbon" development framework.

Keywords: Greenwashing behavior, financial reporting quality, Long-term institutional investors, audit quality, Financing constraints

Suggested Citation:

zhang, shuangpeng and Nuanxin, Wang and Li, Peigong and Shahzad, Umeair, The Impact of Corporate ESG Greenwashing on Financial Reporting Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5406372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5406372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
K A Bentley , T C Omer , N Y Sharp
Business strategy, financial reporting irregularities, and audit effort , volume 30 , p. 780 - 817 Posted: 2013
X Bo , L Wu
Earnings management, information risk and audit opinion
Auditing Research , issue 1 , p. 90 - 97 Posted: 2011
B Bui , M N Houqe , M Zaman
Climate change mitigation: Carbon assurance and reporting integrity
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 3839 - 3853 Posted: 2021
B J Bushee
Do institutional investors prefer near-term earnings over long-run value?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 246 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
314
RANK
759,678
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies