Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Clawback Provision on Cash Valuation

23 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025

Ying Zhang

University of Manitoba

Ying Huang

University of South Alabama

Gady Jacoby

University of British Columbia (UBC); University of British Columbia Okanagan

Zhenyu Wu

University of Manitoba

Xiankui Hu

Howard University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The clawback provision is designed to curb incentives for fraudulent reporting and enhance the quality of financial disclosures. Firms that adopt clawback provisions in their proxy statements exhibit significantly lower information asymmetry between managers and investors. We show that as information asymmetry declines, investors assign greater value to cash holdings in firms with clawback provisions compared to those without. Consistent with the free cash flow theory, the improved transparency reduces agency costs, thereby increasing the marginal value of cash. Moreover, the positive valuation effect is particularly pronounced for firms that adopted clawback provisions following a history of financial restatements, compared to firms that implemented clawbacks without such a history.

Keywords: Cash Valuation, Clawback, Information asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Ying and Huang, Ying and Jacoby, Gady and Wu, Zhenyu and Hu, Xiankui, The Impact of Clawback Provision on Cash Valuation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5407026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5407026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Akhigbe , R J Kudla , J Madura
Why are some corporate earnings restatements more damaging
Applied Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 327 - 336 Posted: 2005
K Anderson , T Yohn
The effect of 10-K restatements on firm value, information asymmetries, and investors' reliance on earnings Posted: 2002
C Armstrong , W Guay , Weber J
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
K S Bardos
Quality of financial information and liquidity
Review of Financial Economics , volume 20 , p. 49 - 62 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
65
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies