Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Financial Literacy Enhance ESG Disclosures?

64 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Xiaoran Jia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms and two country-level measures of financial literacy, we find robust evidence of a positive relation between financial literacy and firms’ Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosures. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the effect of financial literacy in enhancing ESG disclosures is more prominent in poorer information environments, weaker legal institutions, and weaker ESG reporting environments. Lastly, we find that financial literacy also enhances ESG performance. Our study contributes to and extends the literature by providing strong evidence that citizens’ financial literacy enhances firms’ ESG disclosure and the associated ESG performance.

Keywords: Financial Literacy, ESG Disclosures, Information Environment, Legal Institutions, ESG Reporting Environment.

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Xiaoran and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow, Can Financial Literacy Enhance ESG Disclosures?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5408170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5408170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
S Agarwal , J C Driscoll , X Gabaix , D Laibson
The age of reason: Financial decisions over the life cycle and implications for regulation
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 , p. 51 - 117 Posted: 2009
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , C Zhang
Corporate social responsibility and firm risk: Theory and empirical evidence
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 10 , p. 4451 - 4469 Posted: 2019
R Alessie , M Van Rooij , A Lusardi
Financial literacy and retirement preparation in the Netherlands
Journal of Pension Economics and Finance , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 527 - 545 Posted: 2011
A Amel-Zadeh , G Serafeim
Why and how investors use ESG information: Evidence from a global survey
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 74 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 103 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies