Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Board Meeting Frequency and Firm Performance: Evidence from Nigeria

12 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

Philip Jehu

Department of Accounting, Federal University Kashere, Gombe, Nigeria

Umale Okoh

Federal University of Kashere

Abdurrahman Adamu Pantamee

Federal University of Kashere

Date Written: June 01, 2022

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of frequent board meetings on firm performance of listed firms in Nigeria. The study utilized panel data regression analysis of 560 firm-year observations, from the year 2011 to 2020. Data were extracted from annual reports of 56 sampled non-financial services firms, listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX). We find that board meeting frequency is positive and is significant in affecting firm performance in Nigeria. We find no basis to associate improvement in firm performance with board size. These findings have policy implications for regulatory agencies. It means board meetings' current average of 4 times per year for Nigerian firms should at least be sustained, if not increased. Future studies could examine whether board meetings held virtually could improve firm performance. Those studies could further investigate the indirect effect of board meetings on firm performance. Such studies could also explore other corporate governance variables, like the geographical location of board members, board members on other firms' boards, and foreign directors.

Keywords: Firm Performance, Board Meeting Frequency, Board Size, ROE, Firm Size

Suggested Citation:

Jehu, Philip and Okoh, Umale and Adamu Pantamee, Abdurrahman and Adamu Pantamee, Abdurrahman,

Board Meeting Frequency and Firm Performance: Evidence from Nigeria

(June 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5409382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5409382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies