Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Patent Law, Financial Security, and Data Leakage Risk Management

20 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025

Hairan Yu

Macau University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This article explores the relationship among the new Patent Law, financial security, and data leakage risk based on data from Chinese A-share listed companies from 2009 to 2023. The empirical results demonstrate the following: First, the greater the intensity of implementation of the new Patent Law, the significantly lower the risk of corporate data leakage; second, the higher the level of corporate financial security, the significantly lower the risk of data leakage; third, financial security plays a significant mediating role between the intensity of implementation of the new Patent Law and data leakage risk; fourth, in regions with stronger judicial enforcement, the mediating role of financial security between the intensity of implementation of the new Patent Law and data leakage risk is stronger. The conclusions of this article provide empirical support for optimizing the legal system, enhancing financial robustness, and strengthening judicial enforcement to reduce data leakage risk.

Keywords: New Patent Law, Financial Security, Data Leakage Risk

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Hairan, New Patent Law, Financial Security, and Data Leakage Risk Management. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5413108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5413108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
F Yuan , J Yuan
On the relationship between protection of proprietary information and transparency of accounting information
Finance Research Letters , volume 58 Posted: 2023
S Kulkarni , G N Girish
Navigating The Abyss-Illuminating Data Leakage Threats, Mitigations, and Future Horizons
Cloud Security , p. 37 - 51 Posted: 2024
N K Ojha , S Thakur
Privacy laws and leak of financial data in the era of generative AI
Generative Artificial Intelligence in Finance: Large Language Models, Interfaces, and Industry Use Cases to Transform Accounting and Finance Processes , p. 265 - 281 Posted: 2025
I Herrera Montano , J J Garcia Aranda , J Ramos Diaz , S Molina Cardin , De La Torre , I Díez , J J Rodrigues
Survey of Techniques on Data Leakage Protection and Methods to address the Insider threat
Cluster Computing , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 4289 - 4302 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies