Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Impact of Audit Fees on the Value-Relevance of Financial Reports for Growing and Contracting Firms

73 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Stuart Taylor

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Peter B. Vassallo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We examine the mechanism through which higher audit fees increase financial reports’ usefulness, differentially for growing and contracting firms. To accomplish this, we decompose accounting entries into free-cash-flow-inducing transactions and non-cash, forward-looking accounting adjustments. Two fee relations are examined; one with the component of the income/returns relations associated with non-cash adjustments and the other between non-cash, adjusting entries and firm payoff streams. We test a sample of 33,335 US firm-years for the period 2003-2017 and control for fee-determining factors. We find that, with higher audit fees, markets capitalize more forward-looking accruals in growing firms and less in contracting firms. This is consistent with higher audit fees increasing differentially, financial statements’ value-relevance. Through our decomposition of accruals, we (i) identify different persistence into future income than reported in the extant literature for aggregate accruals and, (ii) find that auditors increase the mapping from accruals to payoff streams through forward-looking, adjusting accruals.

Keywords: Audit fees, Book-to-market, Free cash flows, forward-looking accruals, value-relevance, reliability

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Stuart and Vassallo, Peter B., The Differential Impact of Audit Fees on the Value-Relevance of Financial Reports for Growing and Contracting Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5415554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5415554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
C Aldred
Auditors' E&O costs add up
Business Insurance , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 2002
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 27 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
D S Archambeault , T F Dezoort , D R Hermanson
Audit committee incentive compensation and accounting restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 992 Posted: 2008
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
67
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies