Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Reporting in the Banking Industry: Determinants and Usefulness

65 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

David Oesch

University of Zurich

Tanja Walser

PwC Switzerland

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

We present the first comprehensive overview of the prevalence, the determinants, and the usefulness of banks' non-GAAP disclosures. Analyzing press releases for a large sample of US banks between 2003 and 2022, we find that banks prefer to disclose industry-specific non-GAAP performance metrics based on ROE instead of non-GAAP earnings. We also show that banks prevalently report non-GAAP capital metrics. Banks disclose non-GAAP performance metrics primarily to inform about their performance when corresponding GAAP metrics are less informative. Banks disclose non-GAAP capital metrics when they experience a weaker capital base, more regulatory attention and low GAAP capital informativeness. Even though industry-specific non-GAAP performance measures are widely reported, we find that banks' non-GAAP earnings are more useful than industry-specific performance measures to predict future bank performance. However, our results also suggest that banks potentially obfuscate lower-quality non-GAAP earnings by disclosing multiple non-GAAP performance metrics. The findings of our empirical analyses reveal unique characteristics of banks' non-GAAP reporting environment that are relevant to users of banks' financial information.

Keywords: Banking Industry, Voluntary Disclosure, Earnings Persistence, Investor Response

JEL Classification: G14, G21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Oesch, David and Walser, Tanja, Non-GAAP Reporting in the Banking Industry: Determinants and Usefulness (August 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5417075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5417075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Abdel-Meguid , A , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The Impact of the CEO's Personal Narcissism on Non-GAAP Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
A S Ahmed , B E Christensen , A J Olson , C G Yust
Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors with Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes around the Global Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How Does Internal Control Regulation Affect Financial Reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
137
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies