Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Board Diversity on Firm's Financial Performance: Evidence from Pakistan Stock Exchange 100 Index

53 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2025

Nigar Ahmad

Iqra National University

Date Written: October 09, 2024

Abstract

This research thesis examines the effects of board diversity (BD) on firm FP in Pakistan. It investigates the empirical relationship between gender and nationality diversity, and firm performance (FP). The study population was PSX-100 index firms. However, the final sample for this research thesis was 41 companies of the 100 index firms of the PSX, this sample was selected by implementing different inclusion and exclusion criteria. The data collection period was from 2012 to 2022. In order to test the study’s hypotheses Panel data regression analysis (models) was employed to investigate the relationships between the study’s variables. Firm performance was estimated using both a market measure (Tobin's Q) and an accounting measure (ROA). The study findings show that gender and nationality diversity on boards do not significantly influence FP. The results show that BD has no influence on the firm FP of the PSX-listed non-financial 100 Index firms. This is likely due to Pakistan's unique cultural and institutional context. In addition to this, the study reveals no significant relationship between BD and FP. This could be attributed to weak enforcement mechanisms and the influence of personal connections in Pakistan. 

Keywords: Board Diversity, Firm Performance, Pakistan Stock Exchange, ROA, National Diversity and Panel Data

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Nigar and Ahmad, Nigar and Iqbal, Arshad, The Impact of Board Diversity on Firm's Financial Performance: Evidence from Pakistan Stock Exchange 100 Index (October 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5419535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5419535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies