Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Status as a Mechanism to Co-opt the Board: Evidence from Two Hong Kong Natural Experiments

66 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2025

Michelle Lowry

Virginia Tech

Gary C. Biddle

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics; Columbia Business School; HKU Business School; London Business School

Abstract

Worldwide, reforms have been adopted to enhance corporate governance, including financial reporting quality, but their effectiveness depends on director characteristics. This study uses regulatory changes increasing independent director (ID) requirements in Hong Kong to investigate how relative ID status relates to board co-option and financial reporting quality. We find that previously non-compliant firms respond to ID-enhancing regulations by reducing relative ID status, with similar decreases in firms with concentrated ownership but not in founder-influenced firms. We find some evidence that financial reporting quality is moderated by both ID status changes and concentrated ownership. This evidence indicates that co-option via relative ID status can undermine the intended benefits of ID-enhancing regulations.

Keywords: Corporate governance, boards of directors, independent director regulations, status, financial reporting quality, Hong Kong

Suggested Citation:

Lowry, Michelle and Biddle, Gary C., Status as a Mechanism to Co-opt the Board: Evidence from Two Hong Kong Natural Experiments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5420832 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5420832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
A G Acharya , T G Pollock
Shoot for the stars? Predicting the recruitment of prestigious directors at newly public firms
Academy of Management Journal , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1396 - 1419 Posted: 2013
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
D Amiram , W H Beaver , W R Landsman , J Zhao
The effects of credit default swap trading on information asymmetry in syndicated loans
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 364 - 382 Posted: 2017
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies