Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender, credit, and the pay gap

52 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2025

Manthos D. Delis

Audencia Business School

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Maria Iosifidi

Montpellier Business School

Panagiotis Politsidis

Audencia Business School

Anthony Saunders

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Abstract

We test the hypothesis that the gender of firm owners affects the ratio of owner to average worker compensation (the pay gap). We use a unique and representative sample of small European firms, where the owner is the decision-maker who provides information to a bank during the loan application process. Our findings indicate that firms with female owners are associated with lower pay gaps. This effect results from both higher self-reimbursement for firm owners and lower average employee compensation. We identify access to credit and the skill/specialization of owners as key factors contributing to this relationship, highlighting the important role of R&D and innovation. Furthermore, we find that inverse proxies for business ethics, such as poor financial reporting quality, exacerbate the positive effect of male ownership on the pay gap.

Keywords: Gender of firm owners, pay gap, access to finance and credit, innovation, business ethics

Suggested Citation:

Delis, Manthos D. and Hasan, Iftekhar and Iosifidi, Maria and Politsidis, Panagiotis and Saunders, Anthony, Gender, credit, and the pay gap. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5420441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5420441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R B Adams , A N Licht , L Sagiv
Shareholders and stakeholders: How do directors decide?
Strategic Management Journal , volume 32 , issue 12 , p. 1331 - 1355 Posted: 2011
H Arabzadeh , A Balleer , B Gehrke , A A Taskin
Minimum wages, wage dispersion and financial constraints in firms
European Economic Review Posted: 2024
E Asiedu , I Kalonda-Kanyama , L Ndikumana , A Nti-Addae
Access to credit by firms in Sub-Saharan Africa: How relevant is gender?
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 293 - 297 Posted: 2013
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies