Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Board in Corporate Reporting

Forthcoming in the Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment

Edited by Weili Ge, Allison Koester, and Sarah McVay

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/142

33 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025 Last revised: 22 Sep 2025

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: August 31, 2025

Abstract

This chapter examines the role of the board of directors in ensuring the integrity and reliability of corporate reporting. The chapter discusses the importance of board attributes like independence, expertise, and availability in enhancing financial statement accuracy and internal control effectiveness. Additionally, it explores directors' incentives and external influences, including shareholder monitoring and regulatory frameworks, on board performance. The analysis extends to the impact of executive compensation structures on reporting quality and the evolving responsibilities of boards in the context of sustainability and ESG performance. Key takeaways emphasize the nuanced and context-dependent effects of board characteristics, the influence of diverse stakeholders, and the complexities in designing effective compensation contracts and governance systems.

Suggested Citation:

Ormazabal, Gaizka, The Role of the Board in Corporate Reporting (August 31, 2025).

Forthcoming in the Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment

Edited by Weili Ge, Allison Koester, and Sarah McVay

, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/142, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5423554 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5423554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO Stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
A Alburquerque , M E Carter , Z M Guo , L J Lynch
Complexity of CEO compensation packages
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
211
RANK
747,544
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies