Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Assurance

European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 871/2025

27 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2025

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Alessandro Romano

Bocconi University

Andrew F. Tuch

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

A robust literature examines sustainability disclosures by public corporations, but legal scholarship has largely overlooked the role of third-party assurance—or verification—of such disclosures. This is a notable omission given the extensive literature on the auditing of financial statements, a related form of assurance.

This article responds by examining the role of assurance in sustainability reporting. In keeping with the theme of this symposium volume, it draws on US and EU law. Our discussion begins in Part I with sustainability disclosures, focusing on the requirements and practices of public companies. In Part II, we introduce sustainability assurance as well as assurance providers (or sustainability assurers)—a type of green gatekeeper that assures the accuracy of sustainability information. In Part III, we assess the market mechanisms that may constrain assurance providers, arguing that these mechanisms—reputational incentives, for the most part—may fail to prevent false sustainability assurances and will be less effective than those that constrain traditional gatekeepers, including auditors. We also generally examine the strength of primary regulation of sustainability claims. In Part IV, we sketch some considerations relevant to determining how policymakers should respond on the premise that regulation is justified.

Keywords: Assurance, Corporate Governance, Double materiality, ESG, Gatekeepers, Greenwashing, Sustainability reporting, Third-party certification

JEL Classification: G18, G41, H20, K20, K32, L30, Q54, Q55, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Enriques, Luca and Romano, Alessandro and Tuch, Andrew F. and Tuch, Andrew and Tuch, Andrew, Sustainability Assurance (August 29, 2025). European Corporate Governance Institute - Law Working Paper No. 871/2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5429835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5429835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
22 FLORIDA J. INT'L L , volume 361 , p. 387 - 391 Posted: 2010
Quinn Curtis
Green Bonds, Empty Promises
L. REV , volume 131 , p. 172 - 175 Posted: 2023
Marco Dell , ' Erba , Michele Doronzo
Sustainability Gatekeepers: ESG Ratings and Data Providers, 25 U
PA. J. BUS. L , volume 355 Posted: 2023
Longjie Lu
Regulating ESG Rating Firms as the Gatekeepers for ESG Finance , volume 184 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
RANK
394,837
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies