Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ripple Effects of Passive Index Investing: Insights from the Impact of Commodity Futures Market Financialization on Financial Analysts

56 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Zihui Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Yu Ting Forester Wong

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: September 03, 2025

Abstract

Using the financialization of commodity markets (FCM) as a natural experiment, we examine how a sharp surge in index investment-largely exogenous to firms and analysts-affects analysts' ability to perform their information intermediary role. We find that, following FCM, analyst forecast accuracy declines and forecast disagreement widens-effects most pronounced for opaque firms and among narrowly specialized analysts. Investors appear to recognize this deterioration: market reactions to forecast revisions weaken and affected analysts' chance of being elected as "star analysts" deteriorates. Analysts adjust by issuing forecasts with longer delays, revising more frequently, producing less detailed estimates, and broadening their coverage to include supply chain-related firms. Overall, our results suggest that passive investing weakens the transmission of fundamental information from financial analysts to the market, heightens information asymmetry, and undermines analysts' traditional role as monitors.

Keywords: Financialization of Commodity Markets, Commodity Prices, Analyst Forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Li, Zihui and Wong, Yu Ting Forester, The Ripple Effects of Passive Index Investing: Insights from the Impact of Commodity Futures Market Financialization on Financial Analysts (September 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5434455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5434455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies