Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Compensation, Corporate Tax, and Firm Investment

58 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2025

Mehmet T. Demir

Nazarbayev University

Suleyman Gozen

University of Bristol

David Hong

University of Edinburgh

Mehmet Furkan Karaca

University of Essex - Essex Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines how firms responded to a joint policy shock introduced by the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which simultaneously replaced the progressive corporate tax schedule with a flat 21% rate and eliminated the deductibility of performance-based executive compensation under Section 162(m). We exploit cross-sectional variation in pre-reform reliance on performance-based pay and changes in marginal tax rates to show how ex-ante compensation structures shaped firm responses in innovation and intangible investment. We find that, relative to firms with lower pre-TCJA incentive-pay intensity, firms with higher exposure to ex-ante performance-based compensation increased R&D spending, patenting, and intangible investment after the reform—particularly when their marginal tax rates rose. These higher-exposure firms also reallocated performance-based pay away from tax-disfavored executives toward non-eligible executives. These effects are most pronounced in growth firms with high internal funding reliance. This pattern suggests a more complex relationship between executive pay design and intangible investment incentives under tax constraints.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Innovation, Intangible Capital, Executive Compensation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Suggested Citation:

Demir, Mehmet T. and Gozen, Suleyman and Hong, David and Karaca, Mehmet Furkan, Executive Compensation, Corporate Tax, and Firm Investment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5434614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5434614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founderceos and firm performance
Journal of empirical Finance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Performance incentives within firms: The effect of managerial responsibility
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 1613 - 1650 Posted: 2003
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
The real and financial effects of internal liquidity: evidence from the tax cuts and jobs act
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 166 Posted: 2025
A Arora , S Belenzon , L Cioaca , L Sheer , H M J Shin , D Shvadron
, volume 2 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
149
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies