Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Connections Along the Supply Chain and Suppliers’ Investment Efficiency

Posted: 23 Sep 2025

Xiaoyu Cui
Baolei Qi

Independent

Tian Zichen

Independent

Xiaoqiao Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how pre-existing professional connections between supplier and customer firms influence suppliers’ investment efficiency. Using a unique dataset on professional connections within 2,004 supplier and customer pairs in China from 2009 to 2021, we find that these connections significantly improve supplier investment efficiency. The effect is more pronounced when the customer faces high business risk, the supplier produces durable goods, or the supplier has weak bargaining power. We identify two underlying mechanisms: professional connections facilitate more reliable information exchange and foster greater mutual trust, which mitigate the classic hold-up and bullwhip problems in supply chains. Further analyses show that these connections also lead to improved supplier inventory management and enhanced customer access to trade credit. Our findings highlight the crucial role of interpersonal professional networks in enhancing coordination and investment quality within supply chains.

Keywords: Professional Connections, Supply Chain, Investment Efficiency, Information Asymmetry, Mutual Trust

JEL Classification: G31, G34, L14

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Xiaoyu and Qi, Baolei and Qi, Baolei and Zichen, Tian and Zichen, Tian and Wang, Xiaoqiao, Professional Connections Along the Supply Chain and Suppliers’ Investment Efficiency (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5442834
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies