Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
It Is Complicated: Tax Havens, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Corporate Social Irresponsibility

65 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

Jeffrey J. Bailey

University of Idaho

Weiwei Wang

Weber State University (WSU) - Goddard School of Business and Economics

Debra Sanders

Washington State University

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

This study provides an empirical investigation into the interplay between tax haven engagement, corporate social responsibility (CSR), and corporate social irresponsibility (CSI), offering a nuanced understanding of how firms navigate the tension between financial optimization and societal expectations. Analyzing U.S. multinational corporations from 1995 to 2019 by disaggregating KLD scores to measure CSR and CSI dimensions and identifying tax haven activities based on subsidiaries located in jurisdictions classified by established tax haven lists, we document a significant positive association between aggregate CSR measures and tax haven engagement, and, importantly, we show that both CSR strengths ((such as community, diversity, and environmental initiatives) and CSI weaknesses (notably in labor relations and environmental concerns) are independently linked to greater use of tax havens. These results suggest that firms may strategically leverage both positive and negative CSR dimensions to manage reputational risks while pursuing aggressive tax strategies. By highlighting the role of CSR as both an ethical commitment and a reputational tool, our study challenges the conventional view of CSR as inherently oppositional to tax avoidance. The research contributes to the literature by unpacking the complex, sometimes contradictory, relationship between CSR, CSI, and tax planning, and underscores the need for integrated regulatory approaches that align corporate transparency, ethical branding, and financial performance.

Keywords: Tax havens, moral licensing, woke washing, corporate social responsibility

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linda H. and Bailey, Jeffrey J. and Wang, Weiwei and Sanders, Debra, It Is Complicated: Tax Havens, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Corporate Social Irresponsibility (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5442154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5442154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
169
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies