Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IFRS 18 Improve the Usefulness of Operating Income? Evidence from South Korea

39 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2025

Byounguk Keum

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study examines whether the new definition of operating profit under IFRS 18 improves the usefulness of financial information relative to K-IFRS. In Korea, although IFRS was adopted in 2011, operating profit has traditionally followed a cost-based definition—revenues minus cost of goods sold and selling, general, and administrative expenses—similar to U.S. GAAP. This provides a natural setting to assess the implications of IFRS 18’s broader, residual definition, which includes all items not classified as investing, financing, taxation, or discontinued operations.Using 21,272 firm-year observations of non-financial firms listed on KOSPI and KOSDAQ from 2012–2023, we evaluate four dimensions of earnings quality: value relevance, earnings persistence, cash flow predictability, and accounting conservatism. The results show that K-IFRS operating profit delivers stronger value relevance, persistence, and predictive power for cash flows than IFRS 18. Although IFRS 18 appears somewhat more conservative, the difference is not statistically significant, and K-IFRS retains higher explanatory power. Robustness checks with foreign exchange items confirm these findings.Overall, IFRS 18’s residual definition does not consistently enhance the decision-usefulness of operating profit. These results provide early evidence on IFRS 18 and offer important implications for regulators, practitioners, and investors in international capital markets.

Keywords: IFRS 18, K-IFRS, Operating profit, Earnings quality, Value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Keum, Byounguk, Does IFRS 18 Improve the Usefulness of Operating Income? Evidence from South Korea. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5443134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5443134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Ali , P Zarowin
The role of earnings levels in annual earnings-returns studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 1968
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
M E Barth , D P Cram , K K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
237
RANK
914,805
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies