Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Hybrid Financial Instruments: The IFRS 17 and Solvency II Perspective

47 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2025

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo - School of Economics, Business and Accounting

Bruno Paisani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bruno Salotti

FEA-USP

Abstract

This study investigates how the introduction of IFRS 17 influences the issuance of hybrid financial instruments (HFIs) by insurance companies. As empirical research on HFI often overlooks financial firms such as insurers, this study aims to fills this gap and offers new insights. Using data from the pre-announcement period (2014–2016) and post-announcement period (2017–2019), it compares HFI issuance between IFRS adopters and firms in countries where IFRS is not required or permitted. Across three difference-in-differences analyses, the results consistently show that international insurers have not responded to IFRS 17 by increasing their HFI issuances to strengthen their capital structure. This outcome can be partially explained by considering the implementation of Solvency II, which included transitional rules allowing insurers to meet new capital and solvency requirements by issuing HFI. This study contributes to the understanding of the potential effects of IFRS 17 on the accounting practices. From a regulatory perspective, it offers insights into potential solutions for firms facing regulatory capital deficits. Moreover, it enriches the academic discourse by highlighting the unintended effects of adopting international accounting standards and fair value accounting. It underscores the importance of considering the interaction between new accounting rules and existing regulatory frameworks.

Keywords: Difference-in-Difference, Hybrid Financial Instruments, IFRS 17, International Accounting, Insurance Companies, Solvency II

Suggested Citation:

Flores, Eduardo and Paisani, Bruno and Salotti, Bruno, Analysis of Hybrid Financial Instruments: The IFRS 17 and Solvency II Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5447827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5447827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
218 References
A Abdallah , W Abdallah , F Salama
The market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in the European Insurance Industry
Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance: Issues and Practice , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 653 - 703 Posted: 2018
L E Afonso
A editoria de atuária da Revista Contabilidade & Finanças: algumas considerações gerais. Revista Contabilidade & Finanças , p. 9 - 13 Posted: 2019
A Amel-Zadeh , G Meeks
Bank failure, mark-to-market and the financial crisis
Abacus -A Journal of Accounting, FInance and Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 308 - 339 Posted: 2013
M Arce , B Giner , M A Taleb
Due process as a legitimating mechanism: Participation and responsiveness in the development of IFRS 17: Insurance contracts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
137
218 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies