Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unravelling Analysts’ Relative Forecast Accuracy: The Role of a Firm’s Information Environment

48 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2025

Joonho Lee

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona - Accounting Department

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

We find that superior (inferior) analysts who made consistently more (less) accurate earnings forecasts than their peers in the past four quarters continue to exhibit better (worse) forecast accuracy in the following quarter. More importantly, the persistent gap of superior and inferior analysts’ relative forecast accuracy is larger for firms with a richer information environment, implying that the primary driver of their accuracy gap is their different abilities to incorporate and interpret publicly available information rather than their different abilities to access managers’ private information. This result is more pronounced in the post-Reg FD period than in the pre-Reg FD period, supporting the previous interpretation. Additionally, investors respond more (less) to superior (inferior) analysts’ forecast revisions, and they do so to a larger extent for firms with a richer information environment and in the post-Reg FD period, indicating that the market appears to understand the persistent accuracy gap and the role of information environment. Our findings offer insights into the source of superior analysts’ forecast performance and help to formulate better earnings expectations for firms with varying information qualities.

Keywords: analyst relative forecast accuracy, information environment, Regulation FD, stock market response

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Joonho and Zang, Yoonseok, Unravelling Analysts’ Relative Forecast Accuracy: The Role of a Firm’s Information Environment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5450132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5450132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha , M Chen
Who is afraid of Reg FD? The behavior and performance of sell-side analysts following the SEC's fair disclosure rules
Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
W Bailey , H Li , C Mao , R Zhong
Regulation Fair Disclosure and earnings information: market, analyst and corporate responses
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2487 - 2514 Posted: 2003
H K Baker , J R Nofsinger , D G Weaver
International cross-listing and visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
O E Barron , O Kim , S Lim , D Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies