Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance to Investors of Greenhouse Gas Methane Emissions

60 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Zhe Michael Guo

Iowa State University - College of Business

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: September 07, 2025

Abstract

While much evidence identifies the human and environmental impacts of excessive methane gas (CH4) emissions, climate scientists and world bodies have yet to explore whether financial markets price these impacts. Financial markets play an important role in reducing global warming because investors can penalize emitter firms today as a reduction in market value for the costs of their future emissions. Using firmlevel data on industrial CH4 and CO2 emissions mandatorily reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), we document five key findings. First, the equity market penalizes firms for high levels of CH4 by imposing a share price discount that is at least six times higher than the share price discount for CO2. Second, this discrepancy arguably reflects investors' use of a higher global warming factor for CH4 than the one used by the EPA. Third, the CH4 valuation discount is largely driven by industry-level rather than firm-specific emissions. Fourth, the market penalty is stronger for firms in Blue states, those with limited CH4 disclosure in 10-K filings, and those with limited media mentions, suggesting that investors' negative response to CH4 is more severe when climate regulation is stricter and disclosure transparency weaker. Fifth, we examined two regulations, finding that (i) firms located in states supporting the 2016 EPA methane regulations to reduce emissions face a sharper market penalty after the rules were later overturned by a federal court; and (ii) firms headquartered in states required to disclose harmful chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing experience a smaller market penalty.

Keywords: Methane Emissions, CH4, Market Impact of Methane, Media Attention, 10-K Disclosure, EPA Rules To Curb Methane Emissions, CO2

Declaration of Interest

The authors certify that they have no affiliation with or involvement in any organization or entity with any financial interest or non-financial interest in the subject matter or materials discussed in this manuscript. All data are from public sources identified in the paper. Some require a subscription.

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Guo, Zhe Michael and Sun, Estelle Yuan, The Relevance to Investors of Greenhouse Gas Methane Emissions (September 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5455375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5455375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies