Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Nonprofit Pay and Market Pay Visibility on Donor Trust and Nonprofit Governance

59 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Xinyu Zhang

Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Eric W. Chan

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 04, 2025

Abstract

Our study examines how the visibility of nonprofit managers' pay relative to the market affects donor trust and managerial investment in governance. We theorize that donors interpret visible comparisons between managers' pay levels and market pay as signals of whether those managers' values align with the nonprofit's mission, which in turn influences donor trust. Across five experiments, we find consistent evidence that when market pay visibility is high, donors distrust high pay managers with their donations, regardless of how informative the market pay signals are about managers' value alignment, and they expect nonprofits to invest in strong governance accordingly. In contrast, although high pay managers anticipate donor distrust, they invest in costly governance only when market pay signals clearly reveal that they have prioritized their own interests over those of the nonprofit. When market pay signals are more ambiguous about their value alignment, high pay managers forgo governance investments, despite the risk of losing donor trust and donations. Overall, our study highlights how the visibility of nonprofit pay relative to the market influences donor trust and donation decisions, and identifies which managers, under what conditions, invest in governance to preserve donor trust.

Keywords: JEL Classification: D91, J31, L31, M40 Nonprofit, market pay visibility, pay level, governance

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Xinyu and Chan, Eric W., The Effects of Nonprofit Pay and Market Pay Visibility on Donor Trust and Nonprofit Governance (September 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5457719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5457719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies