Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Crowdfunding "Rules": Compliance with Mandated Ongoing Financial Reporting in an Unenforced Environment

50 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2025

Gregory Burke

Loyola University of Chicago - Department of Accounting

Riley League

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: September 09, 2025

Abstract

Using the regulated, but largely unenforced setting of U.S. equity crowdfunding (ECF) we consider why managers comply with ongoing financial reporting regulations beyond enforcement and litigation risk. In a market with billions of dollars invested by millions of investors, over half of ECF issuers fail to file their mandated annual report, with only a third issuing timely. Using rich offering-level data, we show compliance is negatively associated with compliance costs and tardy filings are partially explained by the desire to issue additional securities. However, despite our rich data, the overall explanatory power of predicting financial reporting compliance is low using observational data. Using a randomized intervention, we show compliance increases from messages emphasizing the regulatory risk of non-compliance, but not those emphasizing the potential economic benefits of compliance. Further, we show, despite low compliance, investors demand annual report information via EDGAR log data. This paper provides the first evidence on ongoing reporting behaviors of ECF issuers and insights into reasons managers comply with financial reporting mandates more broadly.

Keywords: Equity crowdfunding (ECF), financial reporting, compliance, enforcement, Form C-AR, Regulation Crowdfunding (Reg CF), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), JOBS Act Title III

Funder Statement

This research was supported by the National Institute on Aging, grant number T32-AG000186.

JEL Classification: G18, G24, G32, K22, M13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Gregory and League, Riley, Equity Crowdfunding "Rules": Compliance with Mandated Ongoing Financial Reporting in an Unenforced Environment (September 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5463161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5463161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
321
RANK
791,953
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies