Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Community Diversity and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0[10.1177/0148558X251377144]

50 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2025

Jafar Alsaleem

SUNY Empire State University

Gaia Melloni

HEC Lausanne - Department of Accounting and Control

Ricardo Malagueño

University of Essex

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: September 09, 2025

Abstract

Local communities shape corporate activities and performance by pressuring firms to comply with their expectations. In this study, we assess whether firms headquartered in areas with more diverse communities, in terms of race, religion, gender, and age, are less prone to opportunistically manipulate their earnings. Drawing on institutional theory, we predict that greater community diversity is associated with lower earnings management, possibly due to broader and more diverse public pressure and scrutiny of firms activities. Using a sample of 12,973 U.S. firm-year observations from 2000 to 2016, we find that all four dimensions of community diversity are negatively and significantly associated with earnings management. This finding is robust to the use of three earnings management measures, considering the four dimensions of community diversity concurrently and controlling for a battery of firm-level factors. GMM and 2SLS models, as well as additional analyses, also support the existence of a negative association between earnings management and community diversity. We contribute to the accounting literature by providing evidence that a rarely studied institutional and multidimensional diversity characteristic (i.e., local community diversity) shapes firms earnings management.

Keywords: community diversity, earnings management, earnings quality, institutional theory, gender diversity

Suggested Citation:

Alsaleem, Jafar and Melloni, Gaia and Malagueño, Ricardo and Marques, Ana Cristina, Community Diversity and Earnings Management: Empirical Evidence (September 09, 2025). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 0[10.1177/0148558X251377144], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5463134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5463134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
72
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies