Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coming up Short: Limits to Arbitrage for Shareholder Activism in Non-US Firms

University of Miami Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Brianna de la Osa

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 09, 2025

Abstract

We examine the prevalence of activist short campaigns targeting non-US firms and the institutional barriers that limit engagement in non-US markets. Despite generating significantly more negative stock returns than US campaigns, from 2009 to 2022, only one-third of the more than 2,000 activist short campaigns targeted non-US companies. Among these relatively few non-US campaigns, over half involve firms with a US listing. Even after accounting for the availability of lendable shares, a substantial unexplained gap in non-US short campaign incidence remainspointing to the influence of deeper institutional frictions. We identify three such frictions that help explain this campaign shortfall: limited access to private information, the inability to discreetly establish short positions, and a lack of investor support. We further show that a US listing mitigates these barriers by improving information flows, reducing regulatory frictions, and increasing exposure to supportive investors. Taken together, our findings suggest that institutional features are central to explaining where short activism occurs and why it remains relatively rare outside the US.

Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Short Selling, Information Efficiency, Market Discipline, International Financial Markets

Suggested Citation:

de la Osa, Brianna and Maffett, Mark G., Coming up Short: Limits to Arbitrage for Shareholder Activism in Non-US Firms (September 09, 2025). University of Miami Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5464475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5464475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies