Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Market Deregulation and CEO Risk Preferences: Evidence from Accounting Performance Goals

48 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2025

Zhihan Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hongxin Wang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Liuchuang LI

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Abstract

This study examines how firms adjust executive compensation contracts in response to changes in CEO risk-taking propensity following a relaxation of external employment opportunity constraints, emphasizing the role of the external labor market in shaping executive incentives. The rejection of the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine (IDD) weakens legal restrictions on executive mobility, increasing the likelihood of CEOs moving to competitors. This change reduces the costs associated with job loss while enhancing CEOs’ incentives to pursue higher returns through riskier decisions, thereby increasing their overall risk-taking propensity. We find that the boards respond by raising the difficulty of accounting performance goals in compensation contracts to tighten constraints on managerial risk-taking. This effect is more pronounced for CEOs with stronger career concerns and greater risk-taking propensity, as well as in firms with higher performance expectations. Overall, our findings suggest that executives' implicit incentives change, firms respond by adjusting explicit internal incentive mechanisms to manage behavioral risks, underscoring the significant influence of labor market on executive compensation design.

Keywords: Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine, accounting performance goals, Risk Taking

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Zhihan and Wang, Hongxin and LI, Liuchuang, Labor Market Deregulation and CEO Risk Preferences: Evidence from Accounting Performance Goals. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5467983 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5467983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on Managers' Outside Employment Opportunities and Asymmetric Disclosure of Bad versus Good News
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
The bell journal of economics , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
C Aranda , J Arellano , A Davila
Ratcheting and the role of relative target setting
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1197 - 1226 Posted: 2014
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
81
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies