Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boss's Sin, Subordinates' Stain: Reputational Spillovers and Employee Careers in the Aftermath of CFO Dismissals

3 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Steven F. Cahan

University of Auckland Business School

Jiaying Ge

Wenzhou-Kean University

Jingjing Xia

Wenzhou-Kean University

Rengong Zhang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: September 12, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether Chief Financial Officer (CFO) dismissals due to financial reporting misconduct lead to negative reputational spillovers that affect the career trajectories of subordinate accounting and finance (A&F) employees. Using LinkedIn data and a within-firm, cross-function design, we find that A&F employees are significantly more likely to depart the firm following a CFO's dismissal for financial reporting misconduct, an effect not observed with other forms of CFO malfeasance. The turnover is concentrated among headquarters A&F employees with greater professional and demographic proximity to the dismissed CFO and is exacerbated when the firm hires an external successor, suggesting that concerns about a loss of trust under new leadership drive these career decisions. The departing employees, despite accepting initial pay reductions, achieve superior long-term career outcomes (e.g., more promotions and pay increases) compared to their peers who remain with the firm. Alternative explanations, such as involuntary terminations or general improvements in outside opportunities, cannot explain our findings. Overall, this research challenges the traditional view of executive turnover as a purely legitimacyrestoring response to corporate crisis by highlighting its role in destabilizing a firm's internal workforce and reshaping the career trajectories of its rank-and-file employees.

Keywords: CFO Dismissals, Financial Reporting Misconduct, Rank-And-File Employees, Employee Turnover, Reputational Spillover

Suggested Citation:

Cahan, Steven F. and Ge, Jiaying and Xia, Jingjing and Zhang, Rengong, Boss's Sin, Subordinates' Stain: Reputational Spillovers and Employee Careers in the Aftermath of CFO Dismissals (September 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5473747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5473747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
RANK
914,805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies