Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Auditors' Facial Traits on Audit Outcomes

HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-238

52 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2025

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xuanjun Dong

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Hung-Chao Yu

National Chengchi University

Date Written: August 31, 2025

Abstract

Research finds that facial traits of CEOs and analysts, both objectively and subjectively measured, affect their behavior. We investigate the facial traits of engagement auditors, an information intermediary whose incentives and role differs uniquely from those of CEOs and analysts. Using data from Taiwan, we find that Big 4 audit partners with higher facial width-toheight ratio (fWHR, which proxies for achievement drive) deliver higher quality audits. We further find that auditors who are perceived as more trustworthy or more attractive are better at acquiring and retaining clients. In addition, we find that all three facial traits are associated with faster promotion to partner. Overall, our findings suggest that auditors' innate physical characteristics, as reflected in their facial traits, have important effects on audit outcomes.

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tai-Yuan and DeFond, Mark and Dong, Xuanjun and Yu, Hung-Chao, The Effects of Auditors' Facial Traits on Audit Outcomes (August 31, 2025). HKUST Business School Research Paper No. 2025-238, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5474166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5474166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies