Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ring-Fencing Capital Allowances in Nigeria: A Policy Imperative for Targeted Economic Growth

7 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2025

Comrade Kalu Nnanna Nwonyuku

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: September 02, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides a detailed examination of the "ring-fencing" principle as it applies to the taxation of capital allowances for businesses operating in priority sectors in Nigeria. Drawing on the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Act, 2025, this analysis explains how this core tax policy ensures that economic development incentives are precisely targeted. The principle prevents companies from using tax relief from subsidized activities to reduce their overall tax burden on unrelated, non-priority business ventures. Through a clear explanation of the tax treatment, illustrative examples, and an exploration of the policy's objectives, this paper demonstrates that ring-fencing is a powerful tool for shaping a country's economic landscape, fostering sustainable development, and preventing tax leakage.

Keywords: Ring-fencing, Capital Allowance, Priority Business, Economic Development Incentive, Tax Policy

Declaration of Interest

There is no personal or financial relationship with the organization that may have or could be perceived to have influenced this study. This study was borne out of passion to enlighten the public on the topic.

Ethics Approval

This is not applicable to this study

Funder Statement

No one funded the research. It was carried out by a personal fund.

Suggested Citation:

Nnanna Nwonyuku, Comrade Kalu, Ring-Fencing Capital Allowances in Nigeria: A Policy Imperative for Targeted Economic Growth (September 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5477827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5477827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies