Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Going Public Affect Employee Satisfaction? Evidence from Glassdoor Reviews

Management Science, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025 Last revised: 18 Sep 2025

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Meng Li

Steed School of Accounting, University of Oklahoma

Date Written: March 31, 2025

Abstract

We examine how initial public offerings (IPOs) influence employees' satisfaction with their employers. Using millions of company reviews and a generalized difference-indifferences method, we document that employees become less satisfied after their employers go public. The effect is driven by employees who joined the company before the IPO rather than those who joined after it, and is stronger for employees whose tasks relate to regulatory compliance, for smaller firms, and firms with Big 4 auditors at the IPO. The effect is weaker for IPO firms in industries with low ESG (especially social) reputation risk. Using the 2012 JOBS Act to explore changes in regulatory burdens associated with an IPO, we find that the adverse effect of an IPO on employee satisfaction is weaker for IPO firms that benefit from reduced regulatory burden. Overall, our findings provide novel insights into how going public can affect employee welfare and one potential mechanism behind this effect.

Keywords: JEL Classifications: G28, G30, G32, K22 Regulatory burden, IPO, compliance costs, human capital

Suggested Citation:

Pinto, Jedson and Li, Meng, How Does Going Public Affect Employee Satisfaction? Evidence from Glassdoor Reviews (March 31, 2025). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5477446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5477446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
RANK
596,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies