Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Share Repurchases: Evidence from Exogenous Variation in U.S. GAAP and State Laws

64 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2025

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Maria Khrakovsky

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

John Schomburger

Financial Accounting Foundation - FASB

Tzachi Zach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: September 12, 2025

Abstract

The accounting treatment for share repurchases under U.S. GAAP varies by a company's state of incorporation. We exploit this unique characteristic to study the valuation implications of accounting choice and under what circumstances the valuation effects are amplified or attenuated. We find that the existence of accounting choice, in states that allow it, is associated with a valuation premium. This is consistent with the notion that discretion in accounting, which can be used to communicate information to stakeholders, is valued by equity investors. We document that when accounting choice communicates managerial intent to reduce the agency costs of cash by engaging in share repurchases, the existence of choice is more valuable. Finally, we examine situations where choosing one accounting method over another might lead to retained earnings becoming negative. In those instances, we find evidence that investors value more the accounting method that avoids this scenario. Due to the exogenous variation in the accounting treatment of share repurchases, our study is the first to isolate valuation implications of the existence of accounting choice, a concept that has been elusive to date.

Keywords: stock repurchases, share repurchases, treasury stock, US GAAP, accounting choice, accounting discretion, equity valuation, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, G35, K22, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Khrakovsky, Maria and Schomburger, John and Zach, Tzachi, Accounting for Share Repurchases: Evidence from Exogenous Variation in U.S. GAAP and State Laws (September 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5490009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5490009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies