Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quarter-End Sales and Value Destruction

59 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025 Last revised: 1 Oct 2025

Brigham Brau

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: September 16, 2025

Abstract

I present the first large-sample analysis of quarter-end sales spikes using proprietary CRM data on 164 million employee-level sales opportunities from hundreds of public and private firms. I document a 75% increase in sales volume during the final week of each quarter and a doubling in the sales loss-to-win ratio. In the first part of my analysis, I find that these quarter-end sales spikes reflect an increase in sales effort rather than a shift in deal timing by examining employee sales tasks, opportunity wins and losses, and deal structure. The increased effort leads to meaningful value destruction, where higher quality opportunities are lost and the customers that purchase require more subsequent support. In the second part of my analysis, I examine why sales spikes persist across quarters. I predict that the persistence of quarter-end sales spikes can be explained by the firm's top-down pressure to reduce quarter-end misalignment between its dynamic incentives and the static quota of employees. Consistent with this prediction, I find that employees boost sales outside their incentive zones, indicating top-down pressure. Employees also boost sales more in settings where the firms misalignment is likely greater: when there is reporting pressure, when it is difficult to set aligned quotas, and when there is firm-level under-performance within the quarter. Lastly, I provide evidence that firms use promotion and managerial pressure as implicit incentives to resolve misalignment at quarter's end.

Keywords: value destruction, quota, sales, revenue recognition, nonlinear compensation, sales employee JEL Classification: M41, M52, D82, L25

Suggested Citation:

Brau, Brigham, Quarter-End Sales and Value Destruction (September 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5496398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5496398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
M J Ahearne , J P Boichuk , C J Chapman , T J Steenburgh
Real earnings management in sales
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 1233 - 1266 Posted: 2016
B J Asch
Tech sales salary for sdr, bdr and saas account executive careers
ILR Review , volume 43 , issue 3 Posted: 1990
G Baker , R Gibbons , K J Murphy
Subjective performance measures in optimal incentive contracts
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1125 - 1156 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
672,649
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies