Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delisting reform and the information environment: Evidence from China

44 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2025

Shuo Yang

Kean University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Abstract

China’s approval-based listing and largely earnings-based delisting rules motivate firms with Special Treatment status due to poor performance to engage in rampant earnings management and misleading disclosures. These tactics preserve public firms’ valuable listing status, or shells, for potential reverse mergers. Special Treatment firms’ stock prices significantly depend on shell values instead of earnings. In 2020, regulators introduced a delisting reform to accelerate the exit of poor-performing firms, restrain earnings manipulation and improve transparency. We examine how the reform affects the information environment of Special Treatment firms. We find that the reform decreases the shell value component in Special Treatment firms’ stock prices. However, earnings quality and the value-relevance of earnings do not improve. Disclosure quality decreases as investors reduce monitoring activities because Special Treatment firms become more likely to be delisted soon. Overall, the reform only partially achieves its goals.

Keywords: delisting, special treatment, reform, shell value, earnings quality, disclosure quality

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Shuo and Zhao, Jingran, Delisting reform and the information environment: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5501240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5501240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
F Allen , J Qian , C Shan , J L Zhu
Dissecting the long-term performance of the Chinese stock market
The journal of finance , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 993 - 1054 Posted: 2024
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D J Taylor
The JOBS Act and information uncertainty in IPO firms
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2017
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
J Chen , D Cumming , W Hou , E Lee
CEO accountability for corporate fraud: Evidence from the split share structure reform in China
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 138 , p. 787 - 806 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies