Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Concepts and Equity Valuation

14 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2025 Last revised: 11 Oct 2025

James Ohlson

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: September 14, 2025

Abstract

This paper connects familiar accounting concepts to the analytics of equity valuation. Earnings, Dividends, and Book Values, (E, D, B)(t) – the traditional “bottom lines” – underpin the accounting characteristics. The analysis initially considers the elementary Gordon-Williams forward EP model, but without fixed payout. Value creation, E, can now be distinguished from its   distribution, D. Thereafter the analysis considers B’s influence on the measurement of E. Under suitable regularity conditions, the effect of conservative accounting can be shown; the forward PE ratio exceeds 1/r, r=cost-of-capital, if and only if B/P < 1. Following that, the analysis turns to B as a wealth concept. It can be addressed by applying the RIV model, which connects with dividend policy irrelevance and conservative accounting. Moreover, using RIV, B reflects its two sides: economic/investment benefits – expected subsequent E – and drawbacks – future expenses. The finale part models the stochastic dynamics of (E, D, B, P) under general assumptions. Maintaining the accounting characteristics of (E, D, B), it is shown show that the next period’s expected earnings depend on current earnings, current dividends, current increase in retained earnings, current book value, with the  signs (+,-,+,-).

Keywords: accounting, valuation, fsa, Gordon-Williams, RIV

Suggested Citation:

Ohlson, James, Accounting Concepts and Equity Valuation (September 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5510660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5510660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Myers Brealey , Allen , J Mcgraw-Hill Ohlson
Principles of Corporate Finance
Earnings, BV, Dividends and the Forward EP Posted: 2004-04
S Penman
Financial Statement Analysis and Security Valuation Posted: 2013
X J Zhang
Accounting Conservatism and Valuation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 149 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies