Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Impact of Cyberattacks: Evidence on Corporate Governance and Statement Comparability

63 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2025

Anh-Tuan Le

National Central University

Hsiao-Wei Ho

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Henry Hongren Huang

National Central University

Yi-Chen Tai

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In this research we examine the relationship between cyberattacks and financial statement comparability and further uncover its underlying mechanism. Using a sample of cyberattack events in the United States from 2005 to 2018, the findings present a positive relationship between the two. The evidence reveals that firms make efforts to enhance their corporate governance after a cyberattack and thus provide better accounting information quality. This positive relationship is more pronounced for firms with higher media attention and is conversely mitigated for firms with higher earnings uncertainty or higher earnings management motivation due to short-term holding by institutional investors.

Keywords: Cyberattack, Financial statement comparability, corporate governance, cybersecurity risk, accounting information quality

Suggested Citation:

Le, Anh-Tuan and Ho, Hsiao-Wei and Huang, Henry Hongren and Tai, Yi-Chen, The Financial Impact of Cyberattacks: Evidence on Corporate Governance and Statement Comparability. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5511870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5511870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J Amankwah-Amoah , Z Khan , G Wood , G Knight
COVID-19 and digitalization: The great acceleration
Journal of Business Research , volume 136 , p. 602 - 611 Posted: 2021
B K Behn , J H Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
F Brochet , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Mandatory IFRS adoption and financial statement comparability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1373 - 1400 Posted: 2013
B J Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies