Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Task Spillover Effects of PCAOB Inspections

53 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Yimeng Li

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Bohan Song

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Date Written: August 27, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's (PCAOB) inspection focus in one audit area enhances or undermines auditor performance in another area within the same engagement. We examine property and casualty (P&C) insurance audits, where two judgment-intensive tasks-fair value estimation of investment securities (FVEIS) and loss reserve (LR) estimation-coexist but face unequal PCAOB scrutiny. While both tasks share similar estimation techniques and auditing standards, prior commentary suggests inspectors disproportionately emphasize FVEIS, potentially diverting attention away from the LR, which poses greater misstatement risk. Using PCAOB inspection reports and statutory filings from 2011 to 2019, we measure PCAOB emphasis as the intensity of deficiencies in FVEIS and assess spillover effects on subsequent LR audit accuracy. Consistent with the distraction hypothesis, we find that greater PCAOB emphasis on FVEIS leads to lower accuracy of LR estimates for public insurers, with a one-standard-deviation increase in FVEIS deficiency intensity associated with an 11% rise in LR errors relative to the mean. No such effect appears for private insurers, validating our identification strategy. Further, we show that the distraction effect weakens when FVEIS are more material or more difficult to audit, suggesting that PCAOB's misplaced focus is most costly when less justified by underlying risks. We find little evidence of focal benefits for FVEIS, underscoring a potential misallocation of regulatory attention. Our study is particularly timely given the current political debate regarding the effectiveness of the PCAOB.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yimeng and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Song, Bohan, Cross-Task Spillover Effects of PCAOB Inspections (August 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5517442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5517442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies