Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Tax Avoidance on Corporate Resilience from a Corporate Governance Perspective --An Empirical Study Based on Chinese High-tech Manufacturing Firms

27 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Zhang Xiaoyu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Zhao Hang

Hong Kong Baptist University

Karen Lee

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: May 27, 2025

Abstract

The development of China's high-tech manufacturing firms has entered a period characterized by the coexistence of strategic opportunities and risk challenges, with an increase in uncertain factors, making the formation of resilience a current important task. However, how to robustly enhance enterprise resilience remains a black-box. Based on the data of Chinese high-tech manufacturing listed companies from 2013 to 2022, this study empirically examines the relationship between corporate tax avoidance behavior and resilience using a Two-way Fixed Effects Model, while introducing innovation capability and globalization board as mediators and moderators to explore potential pathways. The study observes that tax avoidance behavior can significantly positively impact corporate resilience by providing slack resources, but the negative indirect mediation effect through corporate innovation capability suppresses this positive relationship, reflecting the contradiction between the short-term financial advantages brought by tax avoidance and long-term high-tech innovation investment. Furthermore, our analysis also reveals that the globalization board not only helps to suppress tax avoidance detrimental to the long-term development of enterprises but also enhances the adaptability and resilience of firms by strengthening innovation drive, providing dual assurance for the robust development of enterprises from the perspective of corporate governance. The research results offer strategic insights for enterprises to balance financial strategies and innovation investments to enhance resilience and provide empirical evidence for formulating more effective and sustainable strategies.

Keywords: Corporate Resilience, Tax Avoidance, Globalization Board, High-tech Manufacturing Industry, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Xiaoyu, Zhang and Hang, Zhao and zhang, xiaoyu and Lee, Karen Yoon Fah and Lee, Karen Yoon Fah, Impact of Tax Avoidance on Corporate Resilience from a Corporate Governance Perspective --An Empirical Study Based on Chinese High-tech Manufacturing Firms (May 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5520258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5520258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies