Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Amendments of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards Impact Data Quality and Utility for Researchers: A Critical Assessment 

25 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Felicitas Sommer

Technische Universität München (TUM) - Department of Aerospace and Geodesy

Andreas Dimmelmeier

Ludwig Maximilians University Munich

Date Written: September 19, 2025

Abstract

This policy briefing aims to direct the attention of those researchers, who are concerned with corporate sustainability disclosures, to the EFRAG Survey on the Amended ESRS Exposure Drafts 2025. The key points are Data user's burden, stakeholders's costs and missed benefits • Attempts to reduce companies' data generation burden will not eliminate costs but shift them to the data users and stakeholders. A cost-benefit analysis that does not recognize these aspects is incomplete. • Accessible, usable, high quality corporate sustainability reports are essential for academic research and reliable data products to support Europe's economic sustainability information ecosystem. Current plans under the Omnibus I package risk undermining the potential benefits of corporate sustainability data. • Data users and stakeholders, such as those in finance, economics, accounting, and ClimateNLP, have long raised concerns about the lack of consistency, completeness, methodological transparency, and credibility. Yet many more research communities-statistics, geography, remote sensing, biodiversity science, climate and earth system science, as well as the social sciences and humanities, in particular political ecology and political economy-also have stakes in high-quality data. • The various innovative, interdisciplinary and evolving research communities working with sustainability disclosures need greater visibility and recognition.

Keywords: Corporate Reporting, Sustainable Finance, Data Quality Dimensions

Declaration of Interest

There are no personal or financial relationships with other people or organizations that may have or could be perceived to have influenced their study

Suggested Citation:

Sommer, Felicitas and Sommer, Felicitas and Dimmelmeier, Andreas, How Amendments of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards Impact Data Quality and Utility for Researchers: A Critical Assessment  (September 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5521138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5521138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies