Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change Exposure: Does CSR Committee Quality Matter?

Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Md Humayun Kabir

University of Otago

Pallab Kumar Biswas

University of Otago

Hoa Luong

University of Otago

Helen Roberts

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

Using a manually constructed multidimensional board-level specialized CSR committee quality index of S&P 500 firms from 2014 to 2022, we examine the impact of firm-specific CSR committee quality on firm-level climate change exposure. Drawing on stakeholder and agency theories, we find that higher CSR committee quality reduces climate change exposure. We further investigate the underlying mechanism and document that the main effect is more pronounced in firms with higher eco-innovation and greater nature dependence. In addition, the main impact is more substantial following the 2016 Paris Accord ratification and among firms headquartered in the non-swing and Democratic-leaning states. We also show that firms with effective CSR committees mitigate climate change-related transition and regulatory shocks. Our findings imply that effective CSR committees enhance resilience against climate risk exposure. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the negative association between CSR committee quality and climate risk exposure is stronger for firms that are younger, have lower managerial ability, and have higher institutional ownership. Collectively, our study underscores the importance of CSR committee quality in driving responsible business practices, leading to better management of firm-level climate change-related vulnerability. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of primary variables and endogeneity concerns.

Keywords: CSR Committee, Climate Exposure, Committee Quality, Multidimensional Index, Climate Transition, Sustainability Governance, Risk Mitigation, Eco-Innovation, Nature Dependence, Political Geography

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

Funder Statement

This work was supported by a University of Otago Doctoral Scholarship.

JEL Classification: G34, M14, Q54, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Md Humayun and Biswas, Pallab Kumar and Luong, Hoa and Roberts, Helen, Climate Change Exposure: Does CSR Committee Quality Matter? (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5523138
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies