Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diversity, Interrupted? Diversity Hushing and Political Pressure

57 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Namisha Bhattarai

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Lucas C. Lee

IE Business School - IE University; Yale School of Management

Tendai Masaya

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Date Written: September 15, 2025

Abstract

We document the phenomenon of diversity hushing, an underexplored form of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") communication. We use quarterly data from 2022 to 2024 to examine how U.S. public companies respond to the staggered adoption of state-level LGBTQ-related curriculum laws, interpreted as plausibly exogenous shocks to the broader political climate. We find that firms with a history of DEI disclosure reduce their DEI communication following these events, while their internal DEI efforts, measured through external assessment scores, workforce diversity, and job posting language, remain unchanged. We term this strategic decoupling diversity hushing. We further test market reactions to hushing in the context of nationwide anti-DEI events and find that investors respond negatively to hushing particularly in the context of U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on affirmative action. Overall, our findings extend the static interpretation of diversity washing and highlight the role of political sentiment in shaping corporate DEI strategies.

Keywords: Diversity Hushing, Diversity Disclosure, Decoupling, Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG)

JEL Classification: D72, M14, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bhattarai, Namisha and Bhattarai, Namisha and Lee, Lucas C. and Masaya, Tendai and Masaya, Tendai, Diversity, Interrupted? Diversity Hushing and Political Pressure (September 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5525559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5525559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
RANK
702,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies