Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Freedom Is Not Free: Manager Disloyalty and Bank Debt Reliance*

54 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Luofan Bu

Hong Kong Baptist University – Department of Accountancy and Law

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Byron Y. Song

Hong Kong Baptist University

Mark Yan

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: January 25, 2024

Abstract

Traditionally, fiduciaries' duty of loyalty requires them not to pursue business opportunities that could benefit their own companies. However, starting with Delaware in 2000, several states began allowing companies to waive this duty. We find that the debt structure of firms in waiver-adopting states shifts from public debt to bank debt, suggesting that these firms rely on more intense bank monitoring to address potential managerial disloyalty. The shift is more pronounced for firms with CEOs who are more likely to appropriate business opportunities and less pronounced for firms with stronger shareholder monitoring. We also find that bank debt mitigates the adverse effect of corporate opportunity waivers on shareholder wealth, the stock market reacts positively to the bank debt issuances of firms affected by these waivers, and corporate opportunity waiver laws increase the total debt market funding costs for affected firms. Collectively, our paper provides novel evidence that firms seek creditor governance to mitigate the loss of internal governance resulting from changes in the legal environment.

Keywords: Corporate Opportunity Waivers, Fiduciary Duty, Monitoring, Debt Structure, Loan Contracting

Suggested Citation:

Bu, Luofan and Ng, Jeffrey and Song, Byron Y. and Yan, Mark, Freedom Is Not Free: Manager Disloyalty and Bank Debt Reliance* (January 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5528765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5528765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies