Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Governing Role of Board Gender Diversity on Conditional Accounting Conservatism and Executive Remuneration: Performance‑based Versus Equity‑Based Remunerations

17 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Reem Essam Mohamed Bedeir

Graceland University; Cairo University

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the governing role of gender diversity on the board of directors on conditional accounting conservatism and executive remuneration. Using proprietary data about women representation on the board of directors to investigate the impact on the choice between accounting methods and the structure of executives remuneration. A sample of listed firms on the London Stock Exchange from 2019 to 2022 is used. The results first document that firms exhibit a higher level of conditional accounting conservatism when women represent a larger fraction of the board. The analyses further establish different relationships between performance-based versus equitybased remunerations and conditional accounting conservatism. Last, the results show that women representation is related to pay out policy and its impact on conditional accounting conservatism. The findings also offer novel insights on the governing role and consequences of gender diversity of woman chairperson and/or woman CEO. Overall, contrary to notions of opportunistic behavior of executives, the results find that boards achieve more level of governance with more women representation.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Gender Diversity, Boards Structure, Women Directors, Accounting Conservatism, Executives Remuneration, Stock Option

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed Bedeir, Reem Essam and Mohamed Bedeir, Reem Essam,

The Governing Role of Board Gender Diversity on Conditional Accounting Conservatism and Executive Remuneration: Performance‑based Versus Equity‑Based Remunerations

(July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5531238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5531238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies