Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Selection and Investment Risk in a Post-SOX Environment

67 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Benjamin W. Hoffman

Cleveland State University

Trung Pham

University of Illinois Springfield

Justyna Skomra

Pennsylvania State University - Sam and Irene Black School of Business

Abstract

This paper investigates the relation between the riskiness of a firm’s investment policies and the firm’s selection of an external auditor. Using a sample of U.S. publicly listed companies from 2004-2022, we hypothesize that firms with riskier investment policies are more likely to choose a higher quality auditor to address this increase in overall business risk and its effect on financial reporting quality. Higher quality audit firms are able to maintain an acceptable level of audit risk and detection risk due to more effective audit procedures. We use logit regression analysis, applying six measures of auditor quality and three measures of investment policy risk. We find that firms with riskier investment policies are more likely to choose higher quality auditors. Specifically, firms with higher research and development (R&D) expenditures, less acquisition activity, and higher operating leverage are more likely to hire an industry-specialist auditor or a Big 4 auditor. These results are robust to various additional analyses and robustness checks. We also find that information asymmetry (as proxied by analyst coverage) has a moderating effect that, when controlled for, generally strengthens the positive association between investment risk and auditor quality. Our findings support the notion that corporate investment policies directly determined by firm management still may influence external auditor selection in the post-Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) environment. This may be of interest to regulators and policymakers as they evaluate audit committee and auditor selection regulations.

Keywords: auditor choice, investment risk, auditor quality

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Mai and Hoffman, Benjamin W. and Pham, Trung and Skomra, Justyna, Auditor Selection and Investment Risk in a Post-SOX Environment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5532098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5532098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The association between audit committee characteristics and audit fee , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
A R Abdel-Khalik
CEO risk preference and investing in R&D
Abacus , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 278 Posted: 2014
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies