Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Sharing or Risk-Taking? The Impact of D&O Liability Insurance on Corporate Tax Avoidance in China

12 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Zhengfang Liao

Hubei University of Economics

fangyuan ding

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Abstract

This paper investigates how Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance （DOLI ） influences firms’ tax compliance, drawing on evidence from Chinese A-share listed companies. The results suggest that obtaining DOLI  coverage leads to a notable rise in corporate tax avoidance. Further analysis indicates that such insurance functions as a risk-sharing tool for top executives, encouraging greater risk-taking and weakening managerial discipline, which in turn fosters tax non-compliance. The heterogeneity tests reveal that the impact of DOLI  on tax avoidance is particularly pronounced among state-owned enterprises and firms with strong internal auditing and external monitoring, but is insignificant for non-state-owned firms and those with weaker governance mechanisms. Overall, this study provides valuable implications for refining the DOLI  framework and addressing corporate tax non-compliance.

Keywords: Directors' and Officers' liability insurance, tax compliance, risk appetite, Inner management

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Zhengfang and ding, fangyuan, Risk-Sharing or Risk-Taking? The Impact of D&O Liability Insurance on Corporate Tax Avoidance in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5533909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5533909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
, volume 102 , p. 507 - 525
M S Hossain , M S Ali , C C Ling , C Y Fung , H Y Huang , D L Zhang , L Wang
Tax avoidance and tax evasion: current insights and future research directions from an emerging economy
Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance and Related-Party Transactions: Evidence from China , volume 9 , p. 375 - 408 Posted: 2022
C Li , M Huo , R Liu
Cautious or confident? Directors' and officers' liability insurance and enterprise strategic change: a model of mediating effect and joint moderating effects
Chinese Management Studies , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 489 - 525 Posted: 2025
T S Li , T Yang , J G Zhu
Directors' and officers' liability insurance: Evidence from independent directors' voting
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 138 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
63
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies