Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Control as a Tool for Mitigating Corruption in Public Sector Organizations in Borno State

12 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Umar Modu Bukar

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Mala Ibrahim Makinta

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Babagana Mustapha

Federal Polytechnic Monguno

Date Written: September 26, 2025

Abstract

Corruption remains a critical challenge in Nigeria's public sector, undermining accountability, transparency, and service delivery. This study investigates the influence of internal control system (ICS) components-Preventive Controls, Detective Controls, and Corrective Controls-on corruption in selected public sector organizations in Borno State. Three hypotheses were formulated to test whether each component significantly affects corruption outcomes. Using survey data, regression analysis was applied to examine the relationship between the predictor variables (ICS components) and the dependent variable (corruption). To ensure the robustness of the model, diagnostic tests were performed. The Breusch-Pagan/Cook-Weisberg test indicated the presence of heteroscedasticity (p = 0.0436), suggesting that the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) estimator was inefficient and not the Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE). Consequently, the Generalized Least Squares (GLS) method was employed to correct for this violation. The Hausman specification test (χ² = 4.43) favored the Random Effects model over the Fixed Effects alternative, a result further validated by the Breusch and Pagan Lagrangian Multiplier test (p = 0.0000), which rejected the pooled regression model in favor of Random Effects estimation. The Random Effects GLS regression results provided empirical evidence that internal control mechanisms exert a significant influence on corruption reduction in the public sector. The findings highlight the importance of strengthening preventive, detective, and corrective controls as part of anti-corruption reforms in Nigeria. The study contributes to policy discourse by emphasizing the role of internal control systems in enhancing transparency, accountability, and effective governance.

Keywords: Internal Control System, Corruption, Preventive Controls, Detective Controls, Corrective Controls

Declaration of Interest

I hereby declare that, I have no personal or financial interest with the people or organisation that influenced my decision.

Funder Statement

This study was sponsored by Nigerias TETFUND

Suggested Citation:

Bukar, Umar Modu and Makinta, Mala Ibrahim and Mustapha, Babagana, The Effect of Internal Control as a Tool for Mitigating Corruption in Public Sector Organizations in Borno State (September 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5533579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5533579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
52
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies