Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Earnings Season on Election Day

49 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2025

Gabe Brull

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Austin Moss

University of Colorado at Boulder

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Date Written: April 06, 2025

Abstract

U.S. presidential elections always fall in the middle of the third-quarter earnings season. We leverage establishment-level location data and voter-level survey data to provide evidence on the impact of local earnings news on voter perceptions and behavior for the six U.S. presidential elections held between 2000 and 2020. We show that better earnings news released before Election Day has an economically meaningful impact on individuals' propensity to vote for the incumbent party's presidential candidate. By contrast, earnings news released after Election Day does not have the same effect. We conclude that corporate earnings announcements serve as a relevant, salient, and reliable signal influencing voter perceptions of an administration's economic performance at a critical time in the election cycle.

Keywords: Earnings Announcements, Information Environment, Economic Voting, U.S. Presidential Elections

Suggested Citation:

Brull, Gabe and Moss, Austin and Wang, Clare, The Impact of Earnings Season on Election Day (April 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5534879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5534879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
191
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies