Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a Model to Compare and Analyze Accountability Standards - The Case of the UN Global Compact

15 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Andreas Rasche

Copenhagen Business School; University of Warwick

Date Written: July 01, 2009

Abstract

Although accountability standards (e.g., the Global Reporting Initiative and SA 8000) have made their way onto the agendas of managers and researchers, a model to compare and analyze these tools in a systematic way is a conspicuous omission. This article aims to develop such a model. First, we briefly introduce the nature of accountability standards and explore commonalities and differences between them. Second, we present a model to compare and analyze these initiatives. This model allows interested parties to discuss accountability standards based on an analysis of the content of their underlying norms, the implementation processes they suggest, and their context of application. Third, we apply the model to the United Nations Global Compact. We show how this initiative differs from other standards and also discuss its strengths and weaknesses according to the outlined model. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.



Keywords: Corporate Accountability, Accountability Standards, UN Global Compact, Legitimacy, Stakeholder Dialogue

Suggested Citation:

Rasche, Andreas, Toward a Model to Compare and Analyze Accountability Standards - The Case of the UN Global Compact (July 01, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5548660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5548660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
32
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies