Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregated Compensation Peer Group Disclosure and Managerial Labor Market Competition: A Network Analysis

Journal of Accouting Research Forthcoming

66 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2025 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Ray Gao

University of Southern California, Marshall School of Business

Yifei Lu

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, we develop novel measures of managerial labor market classification and competition by constructing networks of compensation benchmarking peers disclosed in proxy statements. These networks represent firms’ relative positions within the managerial labor market. Our classifications strongly predict executive moves across firms, outperforming a comprehensive set of predictors in the literature. Subsequent tests further demonstrate the strength of our methodology in capturing the multidimensional and dynamic features of the managerial labor market. We also validate our competition measures by showing that they are associated with retention tools, such as higher equity pay and longer pay duration. Finally, we apply our measures to test two theoretical predictions. First, we find that labor market competition could explain controversial pay practices. Second, we demonstrate that the labor market provides managers with tournament incentives to deliver superior future performance.

Keywords: managerial labor market, managerial labor classifications, managerial labor competition measures, network analysis, compensation benchmarking peers

JEL Classification: G30, J33, J40, M12, M40, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Ray and Gao, Ray and Gao, Ray and Lu, Yifei, Aggregated Compensation Peer Group Disclosure and Managerial Labor Market Competition: A Network Analysis (October 01, 2025). Journal of Accouting Research Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5553498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5553498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
A M Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
A M Albuquerque
Do growth-option firms use less relative performance evaluation?
Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 60 Posted: 2014
A M Albuquerque , G De Franco , R S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
187
RANK
833,930
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies