Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Research on Assessing the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) Service Quality of Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) in Addis Ababa 

17 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Walle Simeneh

Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Date Written: October 03, 2025

Abstract

This research aims to evaluate the quality of Automated Teller Machine (ATM) services offered by the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) in Addis Ababa. The primary objective is to analyze customer perceptions and satisfaction levels regarding CBE's ATM services, ultimately striving to enhance service quality and boost customer retention. The study provides a comprehensive understanding of user experiences by examining key factors such as reliability, responsiveness, ease of use, security and privacy, convenience, and overall service fulfillment. A mixed-methods approach was employed to collect data, incorporating both surveys and interviews with customers in Addis Ababa. The findings highlight the significant role of improving ATM service quality in fostering customer satisfaction and loyalty. This study not only provides actionable insights for CBE to improve its service offerings, but it also proposes tactics for improving the whole banking experience for customers in Ethiopia. The study included 384 respondents chosen using Kothari's (2004) sample size selection technique, with a fantastic return rate of 93.75% from 360 successfully returned questionnaires, which formed the foundation of the analysis and interpretation. The study found that overall customer satisfaction obtained a modest rating (mean score: 3.5984), indicating area for development in terms of ease and overall satisfaction with CBE services. To improve the CBE's ATM services in Addis Ababa, constant monitoring, user-friendly design, high security, and increased accessibility through better placement and support should be addressed.

Keywords: Reliability, Responsiveness, Security and Privacy, Ease of Use, Security and Privacy, Convenience and Fulfillment

Suggested Citation:

Simeneh, Walle, A Research on Assessing the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) Service Quality of Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) in Addis Ababa  (October 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5559319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5559319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
34
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies