Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond the Balance Sheet: Synergizing Financial Sustainability and Information Disclosure Index with ESG Performance Metrics in Indian Corporations

19 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Ashutosh Parhi

Centurion University of Technology and Management, Paralakhemundi, Odisha, India

Date Written: December 31, 2024

Abstract

This research article examines the impact of the Financial Sustainability and Information Disclosure Index (FSIDI) on firms' Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) performance dimensions. By analysing the relationship between financial transparency and ESG outcomes, the study seeks to determine how disclosure practices influence corporate sustainability strategies. The study uses panel data from NSE-listed companies over the period 2016 to 2023. It employs Fixed Effects (FE) and Random Effects (RE) models, along with heteroskedasticity tests and the Hausman test to select the appropriate model specification for analysing the data. The results indicate a significant positive effect of FSIDI on Environmental and Social Performance, suggesting that financial transparency plays a vital role in enhancing these areas. However, FSIDI's influence on Governance Performance and overall Sustainability Performance is statistically in significant. The findings offer practical insights for corporate managers, emphasizing the importance of improving financial disclosure practices to enhance Environmental and Social Performance. However, firms should consider other governance factors to boost overall sustainability efforts. Future research is encouraged to explore additional contextual variables and alternative approaches to better understand the relationship between financial transparency and ESG dimensions. This research offers a novel contribution by examining the impact of the Financial Sustainability and Information Disclosure Index (FSIDI) on distinct Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) dimensions. Unlike previous studies, it employs a robust methodological framework with both Fixed Effects (FE) and Random Effects (RE) models, to ensure reliable results. The study provides new insights into corporate sustainability.

Keywords: Financial Sustainability, ESG Performance, Panel Data Regression, Transparency and Disclosure

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this manuscript. No financial or personal relationships with other individuals or organizations have influenced the research findings, interpretation, or presentation of this study.

Ethics Approval

Not required.

Funder Statement

Not funded.

Clinical Trial Registration

Not applicable

Suggested Citation:

Parhi, Ashutosh, Beyond the Balance Sheet: Synergizing Financial Sustainability and Information Disclosure Index with ESG Performance Metrics in Indian Corporations (December 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5559441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5559441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
78
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies