Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Accounting of Regulatory Compliance Risk inside Non-Banking Finance Companies under Regulatory Technology-Theoretical Analytical Study

36 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Israa Dabour

May University in Cairo; Elgazeera High Institute

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

Organizations face significant risks that may threaten their operations, reputation, and financial stability. These risks highlight the importance of an effective risk management strategy (Kokina, 2021). A critical aspect of risk management that cannot be overlooked is legal and regulatory compliance. Traditional compliance approaches, often outdated, labor-intensive, and costly, have proven insufficient to address the scale and complexity of current regulatory requirements (Judijanto et al., 2023). As a result, there has been a growing demand for innovative solutions that not only meet these requirements but also enhance operational efficiency and strategic decision-making (Ofoeda et al., 2012). Regulatory technology (RegTech) in the Egyptian business environment represents an emerging tool for managing regulatory compliance risks in light of regulatory decisions. These decisions contribute to the reliance on RegTech and Supervisory Technology (RTS) to enhance the stability of non-banking financial markets. This paper aims to explore how accounting for regulatory compliance risks has evolved in light of RegTech within the non-banking financial sector. This sector is at the forefront of technological developments in the Egyptian business environment, given the regulatory authorities' pursuit of a technological regulatory and supervisory era in this sector.

Suggested Citation:

Dabour, Israa, Developing Accounting of Regulatory Compliance Risk inside Non-Banking Finance Companies under Regulatory Technology-Theoretical Analytical Study (July 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5562280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5562280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies