Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On The Economics of Accounting and Contracting in Firms

46 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

This essay explores the economics of contracting in firms and the role accounting plays in it. It builds on the Coase (1937) insight that firms exist due to contracting-cost advantages over markets. Firms are created when entrepreneurs discover and create a unique domain for repetitive intermediating between factor owners and consumers. It proposes that common accounting methods are a source of that advantage: that they are "contacting-useful." This perspective provides economic rationales for accountants taking a transactional rather than holistic view of firms, for accrual accounting, for cost-based accounting depreciation and for overhead allocation, among other methods. Decision-usefulness theory-the prevailing thesis that the function of accounting is to assist users in deciding among alternative actions-fails to explain the existence of these methods.

Keywords: Accruals, agency theory, contracting-usefulness, cost allocation, decision-usefulness, depreciation, objectives of accounting, standard costs, stewardship, theory of firm JEL Classifications: D230, M410, M420, M480

Declaration of Interest

No financial interests have influenced this study.

Funder Statement

No funding has been received for this study

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, On The Economics of Accounting and Contracting in Firms (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5575250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5575250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
RANK
872,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies