Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ReportGRI: Automating GRI Alignment and Report Assessment

5 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Aida Usmanova

Leuphana University Lüneburg

Rana Abdullah

Leuphana University Lüneburg

Debayan Banerjee

Leuphana University Lüneburg

Markus Leippold

University of Zurich; Swiss Finance Institute

Ricardo Usbeck

University of Leipzig - Agile Knowledge Engineering and Semantic Web (AKSW)

Date Written: October 07, 2025

Abstract

Organisations disclose their sustainability performance in corporate sustainability reports (CSRs). CSRs vary widely in structure and depth depending on the reporting framework. Such disparity, together with report complexity and volume, poses significant challenges to transparency, comparability and standardisation. To address this problem, we introduce ReportGRI, an automated system for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indexing and qualitative assessment of CSRs. The interactive framework leverages information retrieval techniques and zero-shot prompting to enable GRI disclosure-based report indexing and report coverage assessment by visualising well-covered topics and reporting gaps. The tool facilitates scalable and explainable benchmarking of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting quality, enhancing report interpretation, transparency, and corporate accountability. The system is open-sourced on GitHub with an introduction video.

Keywords: CCS Concepts, Information systems → Document structure, • Computing methodologies → Information extraction Climate Policy, Information Retrieval, Reporting Standard

Suggested Citation:

Usmanova, Aida and Abdullah, Rana and Banerjee, Debayan and Leippold, Markus and Usbeck, Ricardo, ReportGRI: Automating GRI Alignment and Report Assessment (October 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5575895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5575895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies