Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Risk and Tax-Motivated Outbound Income Shifting

51 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Emmanuel Obiri-Yeboah

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Haimeng Teng

Penn State Harrisburg

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Cheng Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 07, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the association between climate risk faced by subsidiaries of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) and tax-motivated outbound income shifting. We find that higher climate risk in subsidiary countries is associated with lower levels of outbound income shifting by U.S. MNCs. This finding is corroborated by a subsidiary-level analysis based on major weather-related disasters. Cross-sectional tests suggest that the observed association is primarily driven by physical and regulatory risks associated with climate change. The association is intensified by firms' susceptibility and awareness of climate risk, but is moderated by the intensity of intangibles and cost-structure rigidity. Overall, our findings reveal a novel environmental constraint on multinational tax planning and provide new insights into the tax consequences of climate-related risks.

Keywords: Climate risk, Income shifting, Physical risk

JEL Classification: E22, H26

Suggested Citation:

Obiri-Yeboah, Emmanuel and Teng, Haimeng and Wu, Qiang and Zeng, Cheng, Climate Risk and Tax-Motivated Outbound Income Shifting (October 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5575274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5575274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
59
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies