Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning from 25 Years of Changes in Business Tax Policy

25 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2025

Jason Matthew DeBacker

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business - Department of Economics

Aerfate Haimiti

University of South Carolina - University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 09, 2025

Abstract

This paper summarizes the significant changes to the taxation of business income in the United States over the last 25 years and how the resulting variation has helped inform research on business taxation. The survey of research on the topic covers investment incentives, international taxation, corporate financial policy, issues with pass-through businesses, compliance, enforcement, and other related topics.

Keywords: corporate income tax, pass-through businesses, tax policy, tax reform, TCJA

Ethics Approval

NA

Funder Statement

None

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

DeBacker, Jason Matthew and Haimiti, Aerfate, Learning from 25 Years of Changes in Business Tax Policy (October 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5582552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5582552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies