Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Spillovers and the Effectiveness of Mandatory E&S Reporting

65 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2025

Theresa Wittreich

University of Graz - Center for Accounting Research

Martin Klösch

University of Graz - Center for Accounting Research

Abstract

This paper develops a theoretical model to study how information spillovers between environmental & social (E&S) reporting and financial reporting influence the manager’s reporting strategies and his E&S and productive actions. Specifically, we analyze the effectiveness of mandatory E&S reporting regimes, evaluated by their ability to enhance E&S performance and information quality, compared to a regime with voluntary disclosure. We show that stricter E&S reporting requirements and stricter financial reporting requirements have distinct effects on managers’ incentives for voluntary E&S disclosure. From a regulatory perspective, our analysis highlights that mandatory E&S reporting may fail to improve real E&S performance in situations where the manager lacks intrinsic incentives for a disclosure commitment. Specifically, when unfavorable financial performance corresponds to favorable E&S performance, a mandate can unintentionally move the manager’s actions away from E&S objectives. Meanwhile, a mandate always has informational benefits for investors as it reduces uncertainty about the underlying firm value.

Keywords: Corporate Reporting, Earnings Management, E&S Reporting, Greenwashing, Real Effects

Suggested Citation:

Wittreich, Theresa and Klösch, Martin, Information Spillovers and the Effectiveness of Mandatory E&S Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5583679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5583679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Aghamolla , B.-J An
Mandatory vs. voluntary ESG disclosure, efficiency, and real effects Posted: 2024
E Amir , E Einhorn , I Kama
The role of accounting disaggregation in detecting and mitigating earnings management
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 2014
J Bonham , A Riggs-Cragun
Motivating ESG activities through contracts, taxes, and dislosure regulation Posted: 2025
S Chen
Spillover effects in mandatory environmental reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 54 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
39
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies