Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reforms for Growing Firms? Evidence from Corporate Tax Filing Data in Japan

53 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2025

Masaki Hotei

Daito Bunka University - Department of Economics

Kaoru Hosono

Gakushuin University - Economics

Daisuke Miyakawa

Waseda University

Abstract

Using tax filing data of Japanese business enterprises from 2014 to 2020, we investigate how the 2015-2018 tax reforms in Japan affected the average tax burden and whether the reforms benefited growing firms or not. We first calculate backward-looking effective tax rates (ETRs) and then estimate the sensitivity of the ETR and its components with respect to firm sales growth, R&D intensity, and other characteristics. Our findings are as follows. First, the average ETR increased after the reform. Second, compared with the average ETR, ETRs for growing and R&D-intensive firms initially decreased, but then began to increase. The reforms did not benefit growing firms in the long run due to the expansion of tax bases.

Keywords: Corporate tax filing data, Effective tax rate, Firm growth

Suggested Citation:

Hotei, Masaki and Hosono, Kaoru and Miyakawa, Daisuke, Tax Reforms for Growing Firms? Evidence from Corporate Tax Filing Data in Japan. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5588805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5588805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Effect of firm size on (Business tax on value added / Pre-tax profits): Large firms Coefficient Lower 95% confidence interval Upper 95% confidence interval
Effect of firm size on Posted: 2015
ETR of SME with a high R&D intensity Mean SME with a high R&D intensity Posted: 2015
ETR of SME with a high loss carryforwards rate Mean SME with a high loss carryforward rate References Posted: 2015
P Buyl , A Roggeman
Do SMEs Face a Higher Tax Burden? Evidence from Belgian Tax Return Data
Prague Economic Papers , volume 28 , issue 6 , p. 729 - 747 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8
ABSTRACT VIEWS
46
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies