Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring the Green Line: Environmental Covenants in Supply Chain Contracts

64 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2025

Ling Cen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Ting Dai

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Michael G. Hertzel

Arizona State University (ASU) - Finance Department

Scott Liao

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: July 13, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the determinants and real economic effects of environmental covenants in supply chain contracts, as well as their interaction with public regulatory enforcement. We show that the likelihood of including environmental covenants is positively associated with the expected benefits of managing suppliers' pollution risks and aligning with shareholder preferences for sustainability, and negatively associated with the anticipated costs of monitoring and enforcing compliance. In settings such as high-polluting industries, where both benefits and costs are elevated, whether covenants are adopted ultimately depends on which effect dominates. Using identification strategies based on the close victory of the Democratic Party in elections, we find that stronger public regulatory enforcement reduces the likelihood of covenant adoption, indicating that contractual monitoring and public oversight function as substitutes. Finally, we provide evidence that environmental covenants causally generate tangible improvements in supply chain sustainability, as disciplined suppliers significantly reduce toxic emissions and increase their hiring of environmental specialists.

Keywords: Supply Chain Contracting, Environmental Covenants, Customer Monitoring

JEL Classification: D23, L14, M14

Suggested Citation:

Cen, Ling and Dai, Ting and Hertzel, Michael G. and Liao, Scott, Monitoring the Green Line: Environmental Covenants in Supply Chain Contracts (July 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5589190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5589190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
RANK
889,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies