Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Internal Credit Ratings Bias and Borrower Financial Reporting Quality

45 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Matias Sokolowski

University of New Mexico - Robert O. Anderson Schools of Management

Date Written: October 12, 2025

Abstract

There is regulatory concern that banks optimistically bias their internal borrower credit ratings under Basel's internal ratings-based (IRB) approach to minimize required regulatory capital. This concern has led some countries to implement restrictions on the use of the IRB approach, while other countries continue to debate their path forward. Using new data on banks' internal borrower credit ratings, we first find evidence of discontinuities that suggest optimistic bias at salient thresholds in the ratings distribution. Next, we provide evidence that the discontinuities are less pronounced for public borrowers relative to private borrowers, and for public borrowers with better financial reporting quality. Using firm-year measures from an implied credit-ratings model, we find that both optimistic ratings bias and ratings dispersion across banks are reduced for borrowers with better financial reporting quality. Collectively, our results suggest that borrower financial reporting quality facilitates bank examiner detection of internal ratings bias and may therefore be an important factor to consider in the current international regulatory debate concerning limitations on the use of the IRB approach.

Keywords: financial reporting quality, internal ratings-based (IRB) approach, bank capital, bank regulatory reporting, credit ratings, probability of default

JEL Classification: G21, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Edward and Sokolowski, Matias, Bank Internal Credit Ratings Bias and Borrower Financial Reporting Quality (October 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5599951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5599951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
26
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies