Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Control, Income Smoothing and Transparency of Financial Results Under Environmental and Internal Financial Distress

49 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2025

Luis R. Gomez-Mejia

Arizona State University (ASU) - Management Department

Cristina Cruz

Fundación Instituto de Empresa, S.L.

Claudia Imperatore

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Disclosure of financial data is subject to substantial managerial discretion and for this reason it may be subject to opportunistic reporting. Income smoothing in particular is not illegal yet it may be used in a manipulative fashion to level fluctuations in net income across reporting periods and thus project a more consistent earnings flow over time under crisis or financial conditions. Using a large data set of 4,634 firm year observations during a period that included the “Great Recession” of 2008 we support the hypothesis that family firms are less likely to engage in income smoothing when the firm is experiencing external shocks and financial pressures. Furthermore this more transparent family reporting practice is positively associated with future financial performance.

Keywords: Financial reporting family control financial crisis socioemotional wealth

Suggested Citation:

Gomez-Mejia, Luis R. and Cruz, Cristina and Imperatore, Claudia, Family Control, Income Smoothing and Transparency of Financial Results Under Environmental and Internal Financial Distress. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5607146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5607146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
S Abogun , E A Adigbole , T E Olorede
Income smoothing and firm value in a regulated market: the moderating effect of market risk
Asian Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 296 - 308 Posted: 2021
A S Ahmed , J Zhou , G J Lobo
Job security and income smoothing: An empirical test of the Fudenberg and Tirole Posted: 1995
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies