Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Digitalization and Accounting Jobs

60 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Amanda Awyong

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law

Qiang Cheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Tian Deng

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Rencheng Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 15, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how firm digitalization affects the demand for corporate accountants and their digital skills. Using more than 373,000 job posts for corporate accountants by U.S. non-technology firms between 2010 and 2019, we find that firm digitalization does not change the overall demand for financial specialists-accountants who are responsible for financial reporting, budgeting, and forecasting-but reduces the demand for financial clerks-accountants who primarily perform administrative financial tasks. We further show that firms digitalization increases the demand for digital skills among financial specialists, but not among financial clerks, and that such demand is greater than that for other employees within the same firms. We provide suggestive evidence that digital skills substitute for accounting skills among financial specialists in digitalized firms. Finally, we find that financial specialists with digital skills earn higher salaries than other financial specialists, but the wage premium for digital skills is lower for financial specialists than for other employees. Collectively, this paper provides the first large-scale empirical evidence on how firm digitalization affects the labor market for corporate accountants.

Keywords: digitalization, corporate accountants, digital skills, labor market

Suggested Citation:

Awyong, Amanda and Cheng, Qiang and Deng, Tian and Wang, Rencheng, Firm Digitalization and Accounting Jobs (September 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5609412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5609412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
30
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies