Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors of Credit Risk Handling in Selected Microfinance Institutions of Ethiopia

5 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Idris Ali Yimer

Punjabi University

Date Written: October 15, 2025

Abstract

This study examined how certain Ethiopian microfinance institutions manage credit risk. Microfinance institutions are a crucial means of raising substantial sums of money in developing nations. Secondary data sources were collected from specific microfinance institutions for this investigation. The years 2010 through 2018 were consecutively included in the collected data. The data was analyzed using the balanced regression model. Purposive sampling was used to select the sample, and a quantitative research methodology was employed to achieve the study's objectives. The study's target population is the whole Ethiopian microfinance industry. An explanatory research design is used to achieve the study's aim. For analytical reasons, credit risk management is measured as the dependent variable. Moreover, explanatory (independent) factors include the loan-to-deposit ratio, average loan balance per borrower, company development, managerial performance, and total assets. Credit risk is positively correlated with total assets, loan-to-deposit ratio, management performance, and average loan balance per borrower, as indicated by the results of the regression analysis conducted using EViews 8 software. The study also recommended that companies enhance their overall asset value and management performance by implementing training and other strategic measures.

Keywords: Factors, Handling, Credit Risk, Microfinance, Ethiopia

Suggested Citation:

Ali Yimer, Idris, Factors of Credit Risk Handling in Selected Microfinance Institutions of Ethiopia (October 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5610850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5610850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
28
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies