Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow Patterns as a Proxy for Firm Life Cycle

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2005 Last revised: 16 Feb 2012

Victoria Dickinson

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 19, 2011

Abstract

This study develops a firm life cycle proxy using cash flow patterns. The patterns provide a parsimonious indicator of life cycle stage that is free from distributional assumptions (i.e., uniformity). The proxy identifies differential behavior in the persistence and convergence patterns of profitability. For example, return on net operating assets (RNOA) does not mean-revert (spread of seven percent after five years between mature and decline firms) when examined by life cycle stage, which has implications for growth rates and forecast horizons. Further, determinants of future profitability such as asset turnover and profit margin are differentially successful in generating increases in profitability conditional on life cycle stage. Finally, investors do not fully incorporate the information contained in cash flow patterns and as a result, undervalue mature firms. The cash flow proxy is a robust tool that has applications in analysis, forecasting, valuation, and as a control variable for future research.

Keywords: life cycle, financial statement analysis, return on net operating assets, DuPont analysis, forecasting

JEL Classification: L25

Suggested Citation:

Dickinson, Victoria, Cash Flow Patterns as a Proxy for Firm Life Cycle (April 19, 2011). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=755804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
R Amit , P Schoemaker
Strategic assets and organizational rent
Strategic Management Journal , volume 14 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M J Barclay , C W Smith
The maturity structure of corporate debt
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 609 - 631 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,881
RANK
1,491
51 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Determinants and Implications of Corporate Cash Holdings

By Tim C. Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, ...

The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

By Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, ...

Why Do U.S. Firms Hold so Much More Cash than They Used to?

By Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies