Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Last Refuge of a Scoundrel? Patriotism and Tax Compliance

IZA Discussion Paper No. 4121

37 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2009 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Kai A. Konrad

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Salmai Qari

Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE); German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin); Berlin School of Economics and Law

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We study the effects of patriotism on tax compliance. In particular, we assume that individuals feel a (random draw of) warm glow from honestly paying their taxes. A higher expected warm glow reduces the government's optimal audit probability and yields higher tax compliance. Second, individuals with higher warm glow are less likely to evade taxes. This prediction is confirmed empirically by a multivariate analysis on the individual level while controlling for several other potentially confounding factors. The findings survive a variety of robustness checks, including an instrumental variables estimation to tackle the possible endogeneity of patriotism. On the aggregate level, we provide evidence for a negative correlation between average patriotic warm glow and the size of the shadow economy across several countries.

Keywords: warm glow, tax evasion, patriotism

JEL Classification: H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Konrad, Kai A. and Qari, Salmai, The Last Refuge of a Scoundrel? Patriotism and Tax Compliance. IZA Discussion Paper No. 4121, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1391793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Thomas F Adams
Place of the income tax in the reform of state taxation
Bulletin of the American Economic Association , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 302 - 321 Posted: 1911
James Alm , Sarah Jacobson
Using laboratory experiments in public economics
National Tax Journal , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 152 Posted: 2007
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income tax evasion, a theoretical analyis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Frank F Anderson
Fundamental factors in war finance
Journal of Political Economy , volume 25 , issue 9 , p. 857 - 887 Posted: 1917
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,368
RANK
176,143
6 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Shadow Economy, Tax Morale, Governance and Institutional Quality: A Panel Analysis

By Benno Torgler and Friedrich Schneider

Mobile Tax Base as a Global Common

By Kai A. Konrad

Are Patriots Bigots? An Inquiry into the Vices of In-Group Pride

By Zachary Elkins and Rui J.p. De Figueiredo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies