Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Trigonometric Relation between Tax Audit and Underreporting Rates

26 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2010 Last revised: 18 Feb 2015

Jack Manhire

Texas A&M University School of Innovation; Bush School of Government & Public Service

Date Written: January 15, 2015

Abstract

The probabilities associated with a tax return being audited or containing underreported tax are formulated here in a different way. This new formulation is mathematically equivalent to the traditional formulation; however, it reveals a trigonometric relationship between these probabilities that cannot be deduced from the familiar approach. Unconditioned probabilities associated with audits and underreporting are expressed as the square of the magnitudes of probability amplitude vectors. Conditioned probabilities are expressed as the square of trigonometric functions (cosine or sine) of the angle between probability amplitude vectors and the axes of two-dimensional coordinate systems. Although applications are not discussed, this new way of considering tax audit and underreporting rates will hopefully inspire others to find solutions to problems otherwise thought unsolvable.

Keywords: audit rates, tax, taxation, tax compliance, tax underreporting, tax noncompliance, tax evasion, probability theory, probability amplitude, tax administration, measure theory, set theory

JEL Classification: C63, H2, H20, H24, H26, H29, K10, K34

Suggested Citation:

Manhire, Jack, On the Trigonometric Relation between Tax Audit and Underreporting Rates (January 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1680142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1680142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
RANK
307,614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies