Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Task Interruption on Tax Accountants’ Professional Judgment

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 55 (November):96-113, 2016

Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 11 Nov 2016

James H. Long

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Kamile Basoglu

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: August 3, 2016

Abstract

Accounting professionals are frequently interrupted, and prior research suggests that task interruption could compromise the quality of their professional judgments. This paper adopts the Goal-Based Choice Model to predict conditions under which task interruption will: (1) exacerbate accountants' motivated reasoning, introducing bias into their professional judgments, and (2) reduce performance on the interrupting task. We validate the model by conducting an experiment using experienced tax professionals as participants. Consistent with the expanded model's predictions, we find that when tax professionals are highly committed to a directional goal (minimize the client's tax liability), task interruption exacerbates their motivated reasoning, increases their perceptions of the level of support for an aggressive tax compliance position, bolsters their confidence in its defensibility, and compromises their ability to objectively evaluate the risks associated with the position. These factors cascade to increase the likelihood that they will recommend an aggressive tax compliance position. Furthermore, we find that the impact of task interruption cascades to inhibit interrupting task performance. Our results suggest that task interruption can create costly inefficiencies when these issues must be addressed during the review process, and that severe consequences for firms and their clients can arise when the review process fails to identify these deficiencies. In addition, our results suggest that task interruption's costs may outweigh its benefits in the context of professional judgment.

Keywords: task interruption, goal-based choice model, professional judgment, directional processing, motivated reasoning, goal commitment

Suggested Citation:

Long, James H. and Basoglu, Kamile, The Impact of Task Interruption on Tax Accountants’ Professional Judgment (August 3, 2016). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 55 (November):96-113, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,356
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies