Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2016, pp. 449-486

60 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 7 Jun 2016

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 27, 2014

Abstract

I examine whether corporate tax avoidance is associated with internal control weaknesses (ICWs) disclosed under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). ICWs disclosed under SOX are frequently related to a firm’s tax function. When pervasive ICWs exist, the likelihood increases that these frequent tax-related ICWs spill over from financial reporting issues to tax avoidance objectives. Thus my research helps corporate stakeholders understand the implications of internal controls beyond simply financial reporting objectives. Results indicate that, on average, firms with a tax-related ICW have a 4% higher three-year cash effective tax rate relative to firms without any such weaknesses. Further estimates reveal that this negative relation stems from pervasive, company-level tax ICWs. Analysis of remediation suggests a causal link. I find that after remediating tax-related ICWs, firms report higher levels of tax avoidance in the future. Broadly, these findings support that internal control quality represents a proxy for internal governance, and thus the strength of alignment between managers and shareholders. Furthermore, tax-related internal controls represent an important underlying determinant of tax avoidance with significant cash flow effects, and implications beyond financial reporting.

Keywords: tax avoidance, cash tax, internal control weaknesses, internal governance, remediation

JEL Classification: H2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M., Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls (August 27, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2016, pp. 449-486, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1905093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Alexander , K F Key , R Sawyer
Internal Controls and the State and Local Tax Function
Journal of State Taxation , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 53 - 56 Posted: 2005
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
B P Arlinghaus
Internal Control and the Corporate Tax Function
Internal Auditing , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 22 - 28 Posted: 2005
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
742
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,662
RANK
78,567
26 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Performance: Investor Preferences and Corporate Strategies

By Alison Mackey, Tyson B. Mackey, ...

Environmental Risk Management and the Cost of Capital

By Mark Sharfman and Chitru S. Fernando

Managers' Fiduciary Duty Upon the Firm's Insolvency: Accounting for Performance Creditors

By Jesse M. Fried and Alon Chaver

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies