Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Countries Mandate Accrual Accounting for Tax Purposes?

Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research

59 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2011 Last revised: 29 Aug 2014

Igor Goncharov

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 29, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates why countries mandate accruals in the definition of corporate taxable income. Accruals alleviate timing and matching problems in cash flows, which smoothes taxable income and thus better aligns it with underlying economic performance. These accrual properties can be desirable in the tax setting as tax authorities seek more predictable corporate tax revenues. However, they can also make tax revenues procyclical by increasing the correlation between aggregate corporate tax revenues and aggregate economic activity. We argue that accruals shape the distribution of corporate tax revenues, which leads regulators to incorporate accruals into the definition of taxable income to optimally balance the portfolio of government revenues and expenditures. Using a sample of 26 OECD countries, we find support for several theoretically motivated factors explaining the use of accruals in tax codes. We first provide evidence that corporate tax revenues are less volatile in high accrual countries, but high accrual countries collect relatively higher (lower) tax revenues when the corporate sector grows (contracts). Critically, we then show that accruals and smoother tax revenues are favored by countries with higher levels of government spending on public services and uncertain future expenditures, while countries with procyclical other tax collections favor cash rules and lower procyclicality of corporate tax revenues.

Keywords: accrual accounting, income smoothing, tax revenues, corporate tax base

JEL Classification: M41, H25, H21, M48

Suggested Citation:

Goncharov, Igor and Jacob, Martin, Why Do Countries Mandate Accrual Accounting for Tax Purposes? (August 29, 2014). Forthcoming in Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1912003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1912003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J ; P Agell , J Englund , Södersten
Tax reform of the century -the Swedish experiment
National Tax Journal , volume 49 , p. 643 - 664 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Guiding principles of good tax policy: a framework for evaluating tax proposals Posted: 2001
A Ali , P Zarowin
Permanent versus transitory components of annual earnings and estimation error in earnings response coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Crossref
C S.; W R Armstrong , J P Guay , Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
902
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,304
RANK
60,389
3 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies