Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Tax Salience and Tax Experience on Individual Work Efforts in a Framed Field Experiment

IZA Discussion Paper No. 6049

30 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2011 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Joachim Weimann

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg - Institute of Economics and Business Administration; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We conduct a framed field experiment with 245 employed persons (no students) as subjects and a real tax, which is levied on the subjects' income from working in our real effort task. In our first three treatments, the net wage is constant but gross wages are subject to different constant marginal tax rates (0, 25%, 50%). It turns out that the effort is significantly higher under the tax than in the no tax treatment. Subjects perceive a too high net wage because they underestimate the tax. We conjecture that tax perception depends on the tax rate, the presentation of the tax and the experience subjects have with taxation. These conjectures are confirmed in four further treatments employing a direct and an indirect progressive tax scale. It turns out that simple at taxes are particularly prone to being misperceived because their simplicity reduces the tax salience.

Keywords: tax experience, tax salience, tax perception, real effort experiment, field experiment, behavioral economics

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Weimann, Joachim, The Effects of Tax Salience and Tax Experience on Individual Work Efforts in a Framed Field Experiment. IZA Discussion Paper No. 6049, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1951340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Andreoni , J Miller
Giving according to garp: An experimental test of the consistency of preferences for altruism
Econometrica , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 737 - 753 Posted: 2002
C A Bartolome
Which tax rate do people use: Average or marginal
Journal of Public Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 96 Posted: 1995
G E Bolton , A Ockenfels
Erc: A theory of equity, reciprocity, and competition
The American economic review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 166 - 193 Posted: 2000
R Chetty , A Looney , K Kroft
Salience and taxation: theory and evidence
The American economic review , volume 99 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 1177 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
899
RANK
413,954
6 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Public Finance: Tax Design as Price Presentation

By Aradhna Krishna and Joel B. Slemrod

Theoretically Robust But Empirically Invalid? An Experimental Investigation into Tax Equivalence

By Rudolf Kerschbamer and Georg Kirchsteiger

Testing the Mill Hypothesis of Fiscal Illusion

By Rupert Sausgruber and Jean-robert Tyran

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies