Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Decisions Surrounding Permanently Reinvested Foreign Earnings

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012 Last revised: 28 May 2014

Lisa Eiler

University of Montana-School of Business and Administration

Lisa Kutcher

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 2014

Abstract

We examine the determinants of disclosure decisions relating to the unrecognized deferred tax liability on permanently reinvested earnings (PRE). Prior research shows firm value is lower when firms report an estimated unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with PRE, suggesting investors find this information useful. Since accounting rules provide managers with some flexibility in disclosures about the estimated tax liability on PRE, managers have some discretion in the level of transparency related to these disclosures. We hypothesize and find that transparency relating to disclosures about the unrecognized deferred tax liability on PRE is decreasing in complexity of the tax calculation. We find that disclosure transparency is increasing in the size of the estimated tax liability on hypothetical repatriation of PRE. We hypothesize and find that disclosure is more transparent when the tax department is more sophisticated, but is on average, unrelated to the quality of the tax department. We predict but do not find that disclosure transparency is positively related to the overall disclosure environment of the firm. However, during a period of increased SEC scrutiny, we find that the overall disclosure environment has a greater impact on disclosure transparency.

Keywords: deferred tax liability, permanently reinvested earnings, repatriation

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Eiler, Lisa and Kutcher, Lisa, Disclosure Decisions Surrounding Permanently Reinvested Foreign Earnings (March 2014). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2111521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
E Abahoonie , L Alfonso , K Kuykendall
Deferred taxes on foreign earnings: A road map
PricewaterhouseCoopers Tax Accounting Services Posted: 2012-09
E Abahoonie , Y Barbut
Undistributed foreign earnings: disclosure requirements and considerations Posted: 2012
O E Barron , C O Kile , T B O&apos;keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A M Bauer
Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Shannon Chen , Matthew Erickson , Michelle Harding , Bridget Stomberg , Junwei Xia
Companies’ Initial Estimates of the One-Time Transition Tax Imposed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming (https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-2021-021) · 47 Pages · Posted: 1 Apr 2019 · Last revised: 2 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 392
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,768
RANK
250,867
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies