Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unequal Inequalities: Do Progressive Taxes Reduce Income Inequality?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 6910

67 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2012 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Denvil Duncan

Indiana University Bloomington - School of Public & Environmental Affairs (SPEA); Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Klara Sabirianova Peter

University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Abstract

This paper analyzes the effect of changes in structural progressivity of national income tax systems on observed and actual income inequality. Using several unique measures of progressivity over the 1981-2005 period for a large panel of countries, we find that progressivity reduces inequality in observed income, but has a significantly smaller impact on actual inequality, approximated by consumption-based GINIs. We show empirically that the differential effect on observed vs. actual inequality is much larger in countries with weaker legal institutions. Substantial differences in inequality response to changes in top vs. bottom rates are also uncovered. The paper discusses implications of these results for flat tax policies.

Keywords: personal income tax, Gini, income inequality, structural progressivity, tax evasion

JEL Classification: H2, I3, J3, O1, O2

Suggested Citation:

Duncan, Denvil and Sabirianova Peter, Klara, Unequal Inequalities: Do Progressive Taxes Reduce Income Inequality?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 6910, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2164639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Michael Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Anthony B Atkinson , Andrea Brandolini
Promise and Pitfalls in the Use of 'Secondary' Data-Sets: Income Inequality in OECD Countries as a Case Study
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 771 - 799 Posted: 2001
Robert J Barro
Inequality and Growth in a Panel of Countries
Journal of Economic Growth , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 32 Posted: 2000
Thorsten Beck , Asli Demirg-Kunt , Ross Levine
A New Database on Financial Development and Structure
World Bank Economic Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 597 - 605 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,341
RANK
33,835
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Myth and Reality of Flat Tax Reform: Micro Estimates of Tax Evasion Response and Welfare Effects in Russia

By Yuriy Gorodnichenko, Jorge Martinez-vazquez, ...

Myth and Reality of Flat Tax Reform: Micro Estimates of Tax Evasion Response and Welfare Effects in Russia

By Yuriy Gorodnichenko, Jorge Martinez-vazquez, ...

Myth and Reality of Flat Tax Reform: Micro Estimates of Tax Evasion Response and Welfare Effects in Russia

By Yuriy Gorodnichenko, Jorge Martinez-vazquez, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies