Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ex-Dividend Behaviour and the Clientele Effects: Evidence Based on Canadian and US Dividend Tax Cuts

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

35 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2013 Last revised: 16 Feb 2016

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

We investigate the ex-dividend behaviour of TSX listed Canadian firms during a period when both U.S and Canadian governments cut taxes on dividend income. We test whether the tax differential between dividends and capital gains affects the stock price drop ratio on ex-dividend date. Using quarterly dividend date from 2002-2007, we also investigate the existence of dividend tax clientele effects. We provide empirical evidence that relative tax differential of dividends and capitals gain has significant effects on investor behaviour on ex-dividend date consistent with the hypothesis that dividend tax affects equity values. We also find evidence that Canadian Investors, not the US investors, are the marginal investor for Canadian securities.

We suggest that the use of appropriate tax variables is essential for detecting the relationship between tax and ex-dividend day behaviour, as our study has shown that tax relevance hypothesis upholds when the marginal tax rate of Canadians is introduced as tax variable, unlike when that of the US is employed. These findings undermine the claims in some prior studies that tax is not relevant on ex-dividend day. Our study also documents dividend clientele effect using Canadian data. We provide evidence that dividend yield is positively related to drop ratio as in Elton and Gruber (1970) and inversely related to implied tax rates consistent with investors in high tax bracket being attracted to low dividend stocks and investors in low tax bracket preferring high dividend stocks. This clientele effect persists across different measures of drop ratio.

Keywords: Dividend Tax, Ex-Dividend Behaviour, Drop Ratio, Clientele Effects

JEL Classification: G10, G35, H24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi and Warsame, Hussein A., Ex-Dividend Behaviour and the Clientele Effects: Evidence Based on Canadian and US Dividend Tax Cuts (January 15, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Akindayomi , H Warsame
Effects of Capital Gains Taxation Changes on Stock Prices: Evidence from the
Canadian Budget. Accounting Perspectives , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 369 - 87 Posted: 2000
B Amoako-Adu
The Canadian tax reform and its effect on stock prices: A note
Journal of Finance , volume 38 , issue 5 , p. 1669 - 76 Posted: 1983
Crossref
B Amoako-Adu , B F Smith
Valuation Effects of Recent Corporate Dividend and Income Trust Distribution Tax Changes
Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences , volume 25 , p. 55 - 66 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Amoako-Adu , M Rashid , M Stebbins
Capital gains tax and equity values: Empirical test Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
535
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies