Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Market Power and Tax Avoidance: Market Leaders, Mimicking Strategies, and Stock Returns

Accounting Review, (March 2015) Forthcoming

Posted: 14 Feb 2013 Last revised: 17 Jul 2014

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 12, 2013

Abstract

Product market power provides firms with comparative advantages through more persistent profitability and insulation from competitive threats. These advantages likely provide firms with the ability to engage in greater tax avoidance. We present evidence consistent with this hypothesis. We also show that firms mimic the tax outcomes of their product market leaders. Among firms with greater product market power and comparatively high cash tax avoidance, we find stock prices to be less informative and that investors require additional compensation for the risks associated with comparatively high cash tax avoidance. Our results survive numerous robustness tests. Overall, our results suggest that industry dynamics, particularly related to a firm’s competitive position, play a meaningful role in corporate tax policy.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Product market competition, Agency costs, Mimicry

JEL Classification: D40, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Lynch, Dan and Mayberry, Michael and Omer, Thomas C., Product Market Power and Tax Avoidance: Market Leaders, Mimicking Strategies, and Stock Returns (December 12, 2013). Accounting Review, (March 2015) Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2215924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2215924
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,970
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies