Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Income Tax Accrual Quality

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

2013 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: New Faculty/Doctoral Student Session

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2216857

66 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2013 Last revised: 8 Mar 2013

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: May 5, 2015

Abstract

This paper develops and validates a measure of tax accrual quality. Tax accrual quality captures variation in the extent to which the income tax accrual maps into income tax-related cash flows, with lower variation indicating a higher quality tax accrual. Low tax accrual quality arises from (1) management estimation error and (2) financial reporting standards that lead to differences between income tax expense and income tax cash flows not captured by deferred tax assets and liabilities. We validate our tax accrual quality measure by showing it is associated with firm characteristics that capture both constructs and by demonstrating it predicts future tax-related restatements and internal control material weaknesses. We also illustrate the importance of our measure by showing that investors view tax expense as more informative in firms with better tax accrual quality. Our empirical results are incremental to controlling for working capital accruals quality and measures of tax avoidance, tax risk, and tax-related earnings management. Future researchers can use tax accrual quality to address questions related to estimation error in the income tax account.

Keywords: tax accrual quality, estimation error, financial reporting of income taxes, earnings quality, accounting for income taxes

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Preeti and Koester, Allison and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Measuring Income Tax Accrual Quality (May 5, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, 2013 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: New Faculty/Doctoral Student Session, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2216857, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2216857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2216857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
B Ayers , X Jiang , S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: the effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Belsey , E Kuh , R Welsch
Regression Diagnostics: Identifying Influential Data and Sources of Collinearity Posted: 1980
R Cazier , S Rego , X Tian , R Wilson
The impact of increased disclosure requirements and the standardization of accounting practices on earnings management through the reserve for income taxes
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Cheffers , D Whalen , M Thrun
SOX 404 Dashboard: Year 6 Update Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,199
RANK
45,651
12 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies