Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deception Detection and the Role of Self-Selection

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP9384

11 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2013

Kai A. Konrad

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Tim Lohse

Berlin School of Economics and Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE)

Salmai Qari

Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE); German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin); Berlin School of Economics and Law

Date Written: March 2013

Abstract

We consider a lie-catching experiment with 9240 judgements. A set of videotapes shows subjects participating in a tax compliance experiment. The subjects chose whether or not to misreport. Subjects knew that underreporters were chosen for an audit with some probability. An audit led to detection and to a punishment fee. This compliance framework induced only persons with high deceptive abilities to underreport and, so, caused self-selection. Among the students who judged these videos, we find that the deception detection rate was significantly below 50 percent and even lower if the self-selection pressure in the tax compliance experiment was higher. This suggests that, when subjects can choose whether to state the truth or to lie, there is a self-selection effect by which individuals with higher deceptive ability are more likely to lie.

Keywords: Decision making, Interpersonal interaction, Judgment, Perception

JEL Classification: D83, H26

Suggested Citation:

Konrad, Kai A. and Lohse, Tim and Qari, Salmai, Deception Detection and the Role of Self-Selection (March 2013). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP9384, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2231875
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
12 References
Douglas Bates , Martin Maechler , Ben Bolker
lme4: Linear mixed-effects models using S4 classes Posted: 2012
Charles F Bond , Bella M Depaulo
Individual differences in judging deception: Accuracy and bias
Psychological Bulletin , volume 134 , issue 4 , p. 477 - 492 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Charles Darwin
The expression of the emotions in man and animals Posted: 1872
Bella M Depaulo , J James , Brian E Lindsay , Laura Malone , Kelly Muhlenbruck , Harris Charlton , Cooper
Cues to deception
Psychological Bulletin , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 118 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,687
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies