Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complex Tax Incentives: An Experimental Investigation

IZA Discussion Paper No. 7373

49 Pages Posted: 11 May 2013 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Johannes Abeler

IZA Institute of Labor Economics; University of Nottingham

Simon Jäger

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; briq- Institute on Behavior & Inequality

Abstract

How does the tax system's complexity affect people's reaction to tax changes? To answer this question, we conduct a real-effort experiment in which subjects receive a piece rate and face a set of taxes. In one treatment the tax system is simple; in the other treatment it is highly complex. The payoff-maximizing effort level and the incentives around this optimum are, however, identical across treatments. We then introduce the same sequence of additional tax rules in both treatments.We find that subjects in the complex treatment adjust their effort provision less in response to a new tax than subjects in the simple treatment. Many subjects in the complex treatment even ignore the new rule entirely, repeating their previous choice. Contrary to predictions from models of rational inattention, we find no evidence that subjects are less likely to ignore larger changes in incentives. Our results suggest that the effect of a newly introduced tax will be attenuated in a more complex tax system.

Keywords: complexity, taxation, attention, salience, laboratory experiment

JEL Classification: C91, D03, H31, J22

Suggested Citation:

Abeler, Johannes and Jäger, Simon, Complex Tax Incentives: An Experimental Investigation. IZA Discussion Paper No. 7373, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2263649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Baumeister , E Bratslavsky , M Muraven , D Tice
Ego depletion: is the active self a limited resource?
Journal of personality and social psychology , volume 74 , issue 5 Posted: 1998
B D Bernheim , A Rangel
Beyond revealed preference: choice-theoretic foundations for behavioral welfare economics
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 124 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 104 Posted: 2009
P Bordalo , N Gennaioli , A Shleifer
Salience theory of choice under risk
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 3 , p. 1243 - 1285 Posted: 2012
J Brown , T Hossain , J Morgan
Shrouded attributes and information suppression: Evidence from the field
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , issue 2 , p. 859 - 876 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
856,872
11 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

New Evidence on the Money's Worth of Individual Annuities

By Olivia S. Mitchell, James M. Poterba, ...

The Cost of Annuities: Implications for Saving Behavior and Bequests

By Benjamin M. Friedman and Mark J. Warshawsky

Annuities and Individual Welfare

By Thomas Davidoff, Jeffrey R. Brown, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies