Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Non-Audit Services and Client Income Tax Estimation Error

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory

56 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2013 Last revised: 21 Aug 2021

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Robert J. Pawlewicz

University of Richmond - Accounting

Date Written: August 13, 2021

Abstract

Theory suggests that accounting firms providing both audit and non-audit services to a single client can generate knowledge spillover or impair auditor independence through self-review or self-interest threats. Knowledge spillover (independence impairment) should manifest as better (worse) financial reporting quality within clients’ tax accounts. Prior research on tax non-audit services finds mixed evidence, and largely examines clients’ actual and potential tax-related material GAAP violations. We posit that auditors are likely to avoid these more extreme financial reporting outcomes due to reputation and litigation concerns, and re-examine this question using a more subtle measure of tax-specific financial reporting quality. We find that greater amounts of tax non-audit services are associated with greater estimation error in the tax account. This finding is consistent with the self-review threat impairing auditor independence, and is inconsistent with knowledge spillover. Inferences are robust to considering various potential sources of endogeneity. Additional analyses reveal that this relation is partially offset by auditor expertise, and concentrated in client-years where auditors face both self-review and financial self-interest threats. Our findings inform a recent public policy debate that questions whether one accounting firm should be permitted to provide tax services to its audit clients.

Keywords: audit quality; income tax estimation error; auditor-provided tax services; tax non-audit services

JEL Classification: M41; M44; M49

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Preeti and Koester, Allison and Pawlewicz, Robert J., Tax Non-Audit Services and Client Income Tax Estimation Error (August 13, 2021). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2320479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
M Defond , K Raghunandan , K Subramanyam
Do non-audit service fees impair auditor independence? Evidence from going concern audit opinions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1247 - 1274 Posted: 2002
M Defond , J Zhang
A review of archival auditing research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 275 - 326 Posted: 2014
P Demerjian , B Lev , M Lewis , S Mcvay
Managerial ability and earnings quality
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 463 - 498 Posted: 2013
L De Simone , M Ege , B Stomberg
Internal control quality: the role of auditorprovided tax services
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1469 - 1496 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,192
RANK
57,310
9 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies