Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance: Data Truncation and Loss Firms

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2013 Last revised: 8 Jun 2018

Erin Henry

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: May 29, 2018

Abstract

Loss firms are an economically significant and growing segment of the population of publicly traded corporations. Relatively little is known about the tax positions of loss firms because they are typically dropped from tax avoidance studies. We develop a new measure of corporate cash tax avoidance that is meaningful for all observations and reflects the extent to which a firm is tax-favored. We examine the extent to which inferences about corporate tax avoidance over the past twenty-seven years change when we examine the full population of firms, as opposed to a profitable and/or taxable subsample. In contrast to prior research findings, our results suggest that on average firms are tax-disfavored, by which we mean cash taxes paid exceed the product of the firm’s pre-tax book income and the statutory tax rate. In addition, many industries that appear to be tax-favored in profitable subsamples are tax-disfavored when examining the entire population. We also find that the extent to which firms are tax-disfavored is increasing over time and domestic firms are more tax-disfavored than multinationals.

Keywords: Cash effective tax rate, truncation bias, tax avoidance, scaling

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Erin and Sansing, Richard C., Corporate Tax Avoidance: Data Truncation and Loss Firms (May 29, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2329694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2329694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Brown , K Drake
Network ties among low-tax firms
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 483 - 510 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Callihan
Corporate effective tax rates: a synthesis of the literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 13 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 1994
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,773
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,709
RANK
22,477
76 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies