Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Tax Volatility Priced by Lenders in the Syndicated Loan Market?

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2013 Last revised: 26 Aug 2018

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 24, 2018

Abstract

In this study, I consider the effects of tax risk from tax volatility on the pricing of syndicated debt. Tax volatility is an interesting feature in that managers have some discretion over the risks they take with their tax strategies, which, however, are often harder to monitor for outsiders than risks related to other business activities. Framing my predictions based on the theoretical model developed by Merton (1974), I hypothesize and find that tax volatility is incrementally informative to other priced risks suggesting that tax risks per se are relevant to lenders. Moreover, I find that the results are stronger when the loan contract does not include performance pricing provisions or other restrictions such as capital expenditure covenants that protect lenders. This evidence adds to knowledge about the real effects of tax risk.

Keywords: Tax Volatility, Debt Contracting, Tax Risk, Borrowing Costs

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Saavedra, Daniel, Is Tax Volatility Priced by Lenders in the Syndicated Loan Market? (August 24, 2018). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2330024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
750
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,711
RANK
66,201
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies