Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy Uncertainty and Stock Return Volatility

62 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2013 Last revised: 26 Jan 2017

Jennifer L. Brown

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

KC Lin

Central Michigan University - College of Business Administration

Jared A. Moore

Western Washington University

Laura Wellman

Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting; Penn State University

Date Written: January 20, 2017

Abstract

This study finds that stock return volatility is higher during periods of high tax policy uncertainty (TPU), even after controlling for other sources of general macroeconomic uncertainty. Further, we find that the relation between TPU and stock return volatility is more pronounced where firms are characterized by greater variability in tax outcomes. We adopt a broad definition of TPU that encompasses both the legislative and regulatory processes, and we perform tests to validate a news-based measure of TPU that is consistent with this definition. In supplemental tests, we document an increase in analyst forecast dispersion during periods of high TPU, indicating the effects of tax policy uncertainty extend to sophisticated market participants. We also document that the effects of TPU are concentrated in systematic volatility. Overall our results suggest that uncertainty surrounding tax policy can impose real costs on investors.

Keywords: tax policy uncertainty, economic policy uncertainty, return volatility

JEL Classification: H25, H32, G18, M41, D72, G12

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Jennifer L. and Lin, KC and Moore, Jared A. and Wellman, Laura, Tax Policy Uncertainty and Stock Return Volatility (January 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2348414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2348414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shane M. Heitzman , Maria Ogneva
Industry Tax Planning and Stock Returns
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 219 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,380
RANK
212,384
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies