Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Effective Tax Rate (ETR) Guidance and the Value-Relevance of Tax-Related Forecasts

31 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2013

Martin Haas

University of Hohenheim

Date Written: October 2013

Abstract

This paper augments prior research on how tax-related information disclosures affect a company’s market value, by investigating (1) whether voluntary management forecasts of the effective tax rate (ETR guidance) are considered by the addressees of such information and (2) whether tax-related forecasts or actual accounting-based (GAAP) data are more value-relevant, i.e., better reflected in market prices. Based on hand-collected earnings announcements made by companies listed in the Dow Jones index, the study provides direct evidence that available ETR guidance is, to a comparatively high extent, incorporated into analysts’ forecasts. Moreover, the study provides empirical evidence that the latter, i.e., analysts’ forecasts of earnings and taxes, are generally more value-relevant than the respective GAAP data. These findings can be interpreted as showing that tax-related forecasts enrich a company’s information environment.

Keywords: value-relevance, income taxes, effective tax rate, earnings guidance, analysts’ forecasts, US GAAP, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, G14, H25

Suggested Citation:

Haas, Martin, On Effective Tax Rate (ETR) Guidance and the Value-Relevance of Tax-Related Forecasts (October 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2367242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2367242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Note: Intel announced a future expected tax rate of 27% for 2009 on 15 th Posted: 2009-01
Abdul Wahab , N S
Tax Planning and Corporate Covernance: Effects on Shareholders' Valuation Posted: 2010-06
B M Abu-Abbas
Is Net Income after Tax a Better Measure of Firm Performance than Taxable Income?
Asian Journal of Business Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 31 Posted: 2011
S M Albring , M T Cabán-García , J L Reck
The value relevance of a non-GAAP performance metric to the capital markets
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 264 - 284 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rudie Nel , Anja Van Niekerk
An exploratory study of the tax rate reconciliation disclosures of JSE listed companies
South African Journal of Economic and Management Sciences , volume 28 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,365
RANK
267,661
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies