Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Tax Attractiveness Across Countries

Quantitative Reserach in Taxation, Discussion Paper No. 143

60 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2013

Sara Keller

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: June 9, 2013

Abstract

This paper develops a new tax measure – the Tax Attractiveness Index – reflecting the attractiveness of a country’s tax environment and the tax planning opportunities that are offered. Specifically, the Tax Attractiveness Index covers 16 different components of real-world tax systems, such as the statutory tax rate, the taxation of dividends and capital gains, withholding taxes, the existence of a group taxation regime, loss offset provision, the double tax treaty network, thin capitalization rules, and controlled foreign company (CFC) rules. We develop methods to quantify each tax factor. The Tax Attractiveness Index is constructed for 100 countries over the 2005 to 2009 period. Regional clusters in the index as well as in the application of certain tax rules can be observed. The evaluation of individual countries based on the index corresponds – but is not totally identical – with the OECD’s 'black' respectively 'grey' list. By comparing the Tax Attractiveness Index with the statutory tax rate, we reveal that even high tax countries offer favorable tax conditions. Hence, the statutory tax rate is not a suitable proxy for a country’s tax climate in any case since countries may set other incentives to attract firms and investments.

Keywords: tax measure, tax attractiveness, tax planning, multinational company

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Keller, Sara and Schanz, Deborah, Measuring Tax Attractiveness Across Countries (June 9, 2013). Quantitative Reserach in Taxation, Discussion Paper No. 143, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368766 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodème
International taxation and multinational firm location decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M W J Beetsma
Why pay more? Corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Bellak , M Leibrecht , J P Damijan
Infrastructure endowment and corporate income taxes as determinants of foreign direct investment in Central and Eastern European countries
World Economy , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Bénassy-Quéré , L Fontagné , A Lahrèche-Révil
How does FDI react to corporate taxation?
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 583 - 603 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,108
RANK
224,403
5 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies