Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indian Tribal Government Access to Tax-Exempt Bond Financing

36 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2013

Edith Brashares

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

Siobhan O'Keefe

Davidson College Economics

Date Written: October 27, 2013

Abstract

While prior research focuses on Federal assistance to Native American tribal governments through spending programs, we examine tax incentive use by tribes. Tribal governments can issue tax-exempt bonds where the interest rates are lower because the Federal government does not tax bondholder on the interest they receive. To provide context, we briefly summarize the tax rules for tax-exempt bonds and describe tribal tax-exempt borrowing between 1987 and 2010. These data have not been published previously. Unlike most studies of tax-exempt bonds that examine how much is borrowed, we start by modeling the decision of a tribal government to borrow using tax-exempt bonds. We find tribes with resources, either gaming income or royalties, but that have members in need are more likely to borrow using tax-exempt bonds. Of those tribes that do borrow, the amount increases with the interest rate spread relative to Treasuries, gaming income and per capita income.

Keywords: Tribal governments, Tax-exempt bonds

JEL Classification: H-200

Suggested Citation:

Brashares, Edith and O'Keefe, Siobhan, Indian Tribal Government Access to Tax-Exempt Bond Financing (October 27, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2370079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2370079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Nations Indian Casinos Posted: 2012
Crossref
American Gaming Association Posted: 2012
Crossref
T L Anderson , D P Parker
Sovereignty, Credible Commitments, and Economic Prosperity on American Indian Reservations
Journal of Law Economics , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 641 - 666 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Bishaw
Areas With Concentrated Poverty: 2006-2010
American Community Survey Briefs Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,672
RANK
150,696
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies