Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do We Know About Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A Review of the Empirical Literature

Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 14-23

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 702

35 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2014 Last revised: 30 Sep 2014

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 3, 2014

Abstract

The issue of tax-motivated income shifting within multinational firms – or “base erosion and profit shifting” (BEPS) – has attracted increasing global attention in recent years. This paper provides a survey of the empirical literature on this topic. Its emphasis is on reviewing and elucidating what is known about the magnitude of BEPS. The paper discusses different empirical approaches to identifying income shifting, describes existing data sources, and summarizes the findings of the empirical literature. A major theme that emerges from this survey is that in the more recent empirical literature, which uses new and richer sources of data, the estimated magnitude of BEPS is typically much smaller than that found in earlier studies. The paper seeks to provide a framework within which to conceptualize this magnitude and its implications for policy. It concludes by highlighting the importance of existing legal and economic frictions as constraints on BEPS, and by discussing possible ways in which future research might model these frictions more precisely.

Keywords: Base erosion; profit shifting; multinational firms

JEL Classification: H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, What Do We Know About Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A Review of the Empirical Literature (September 3, 2014). Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 14-23, University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 702, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2373549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2373549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
133 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411
Crossref
W Arulampalam , M Devereux , G Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance through Transfer Pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullainathan
Ferreting out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,089
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,260
RANK
4,191
31 Citations
133 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies