Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Risk Affect Investor Valuation of Tax Avoidance?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 34, Issue 1, pp. 151-176, 2019.

Posted: 3 Jan 2014 Last revised: 29 Mar 2019

Katharine D. Drake

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine how investors value tax avoidance (measured as the level of cash ETRs) and tax risk (measured as the volatility of cash ETRs), and how these constructs interact to influence firm value. Our results suggest that investors positively value tax avoidance but negatively value tax risk and, most importantly, that greater tax risk moderates the positive valuation of tax avoidance. In additional analyses, we find that contemporaneous measures of tax avoidance and tax risk provide insight into future tax cash flows and that our results hold using GAAP ETR-based measures of tax avoidance and tax risk. Finally, our results are robust to a battery sensitivity checks including controlling for idiosyncratic and systematic risk, the cost of equity capital, and unrecognized tax benefits in the post-FIN 48 period, among others. Broadly, our findings provide new evidence on how taxes affect firm value and suggest that tax avoidance and tax risk should be considered jointly rather than in isolation.

Keywords: corporate tax avoidance, tax risk, uncertain tax positions, firm valuation

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Katharine D. and Lusch, Stephen J. and Stekelberg, James, Does Tax Risk Affect Investor Valuation of Tax Avoidance? (February 1, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 34, Issue 1, pp. 151-176, 2019. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2374016
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,713
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies