Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax-Related Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls on the Market Valuation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2014 Last revised: 18 Sep 2014

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Steve C. Lim

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Robert Vigeland

Texas Christian University

Date Written: September 11, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of tax-related material weakness in internal controls on investors’ valuation of unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs). Firms are required to record a UTB when their uncertain tax positions are unlikely to be sustained upon tax return audit. While Koester (2012) finds that investors positively value UTBs, we posit that a tax-related material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting (MWIC) represents information risk in the tax account, reducing the value-relevance of UTBs. We predict that the positive relation between market value of equity and UTBs is attenuated when firms report a tax-related MWIC, and our empirical tests reveal that the relation is completely mitigated in the presence of a tax-related MWIC. Falsification tests confirm that non-tax related MWICs do not attenuate the positive relation between market value of equity and UTBs, consistent with tax-related MWICs capturing low information quality specific to the tax account.

Suggested Citation:

Koester, Allison and Lim, Steve and Vigeland, Robert, The Effect of Tax-Related Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls on the Market Valuation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits (September 11, 2014). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2386364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2386364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
C Armstrong , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
SOX 404 Dashboard: Year 6 Update
Audit Analytics Posted: 2010-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,351
RANK
249,052
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies