Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Tax Provider Choice in the Not-for-Profit Sector

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 31 Jan 2014

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: October 4, 2013

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and consequences of tax service provider choice among not-for-profit (NFP) organizations. Understanding how clients choose among professional services firms for tax services is important both because of the economic significance of tax service revenues to public accounting firms and regulatory changes to the tax services market following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Because public accounting firms compete with law and consulting firms for tax clients, we investigate whether factors that influence the organizational structure of professions – client proximity and knowledge availability – influence clients’ decisions to purchase tax services. We examine the U.S. NFP sector because the decision to purchase tax services is observable for all organizations. Furthermore, the NFP tax preparer plays a significant role in the financial reporting process because the IRS Form 990 is the primary document NFPs use to provide financial and operating information to interested parties. We find that NFPs are less likely to retain their auditor for tax services as distance to the auditor and knowledge availability increase. We document that self-preparing NFPs are more likely to misreport executive compensation on their return, and we find no differences in misreporting between auditor and non-auditor paid preparers. Finally, we find that NFPs receive lower donor contributions after changing from paid preparers to self-preparing the Form 990. Our findings should be useful to practitioners competing for potential NFP clients, regulators concerned about Form 990 disclosure quality, and NFPs concerned with the costs and benefits of purchasing external tax services versus self-preparing the Form 990.

Keywords: Tax Provider Choice, Non-Audit Services, Nonprofit Organizations, Donor Contributions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Neuman, Stevanie S. and Omer, Thomas C. and Thompson, Anne, Determinants and Consequences of Tax Provider Choice in the Not-for-Profit Sector (October 4, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2387843
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,387
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies