Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Arguments in Favor of Tax Neutral Cost Allocation

Abacus, Vol. 50, Issue 3, pp. 296-313, 2014

24 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2014 Last revised: 18 Sep 2014

Niklas Lampenius

University of Hohenheim - Faculty of Business, Economics and Social Sciences

Tobias Buerkle

Steuerberater Peter Buerkle (tax and business consulting)

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

When considering corporate taxes in a cost allocation context a tradeoff is generated for shareholders: On the one hand, accelerated depreciation increases the value of a project due to the depreciation tax shield. On the other hand, accelerated depreciation most likely does not induce robust goal congruency between managers and shareholders when utilizing residual income as incentive system and, as a consequence, over- or underinvestment could be the result. The literature suggests in this context the application of particular allocation rules. When extending the relative marginal benefit cost allocation rule (Reichelstein, 1997, Rogerson, 1997) to include corporate taxes we find it to be tax neutral and to maintain its properties of generating robust incentives. As a consequence the over-/underinvestment problem is solved, but the depreciation tax shield is often not maximized. However, we illustrate that in competitive markets shareholders ought to prefer a tax neutral allocation scheme over an accelerated depreciation schedule. Thus, we show that shareholders as well as regulators have – although for different reasons – a preference for tax neutral cost allocation.

Keywords: Cost Allocation, Neutral Taxation, Over-/Underinvestment, Relative Marginal Benefits Allocation Rule, Residual Income

Suggested Citation:

Lampenius, Niklas and Buerkle, Tobias, Arguments in Favor of Tax Neutral Cost Allocation (December 2, 2013). Abacus, Vol. 50, Issue 3, pp. 296-313, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388073
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A B Abel
Tax Neutrality in the Presence of Adjustment Costs
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 98 , issue 4 , p. 705 - 712 Posted: 1983
Crossref
T Baldenius , G Fuhrmann , S Reichelstein
Betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung und Praxis , volume 51 , p. 53 - 65 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Baldenius , S Reichelstein
Incentives for Efficient Inventory Management: The Role of Historical Cost
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 7 , p. 1032 - 1045 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Boadway
Investment Incentives, Corporate Taxation, and Efficiency in the Allocation of Capital
The Economic Journal , volume 88 , issue 351 , p. 470 - 481 Posted: 1978
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,433
RANK
682,707
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies