Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Circumstantial Risk: Impact of Future Tax Evasion and Labor Supply Opportunities on Risk Exposure

IZA Discussion Paper No. 7917

41 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2014 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Denvil Duncan

Indiana University Bloomington - School of Public & Environmental Affairs (SPEA); Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Christopher Zeppenfeld

University of Cologne

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper examines whether risk-taking in a lottery depends on the opportunity to respond to the lottery outcome through additional labor effort and/or tax evasion. Previous empirical attempts to answer this question face identification issues due to self-selection into jobs that facilitate tax evasion and labor effort flexibility. We address these identification issues using a laboratory experiment (N = 180). Subjects have the opportunity to invest earned income in a lottery and, depending on randomly assigned treatment states, have the opportunity to respond to the lottery outcome through evasion and/or extra labor effort. We find strong evidence that ex-post access to labor opportunities reduces ex-ante risk willingness while access to tax evasion has no effect on risk behavior. We discuss possible explanations for this result based on the existing literature.

Keywords: tax evasion, labor supply, risk behavior, lab experiment

JEL Classification: G11, H21, H24, H26, J22

Suggested Citation:

Dörrenberg, Philipp and Duncan, Denvil and Zeppenfeld, Christopher, Circumstantial Risk: Impact of Future Tax Evasion and Labor Supply Opportunities on Risk Exposure. IZA Discussion Paper No. 7917, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
J Alm , K M Bloomquist , M Mckee , A Plumley
Comparing student and non-student reporting behavior in tax compliance experiments
IRS Research Bulletin (Publication 1500) , p. 93 - 99 Posted: 2011
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee
Getting the word out: Enforcement information dissemination and compliance behavior
Journal of Public Economics , volume 93 , issue 3-4 , p. 392 - 402 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
359,301
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies