Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation, Child Care and Models of the Household

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4578

36 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2014

Patricia F. Apps

The University of Sydney Law School; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Ray Rees

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); The University of Sydney Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 30, 2014

Abstract

This paper presents the properties of optimal piecewise linear tax systems for two-earner households, based on joint and individual incomes respectively. A key contribution is the analysis of the interaction between second earner wage differences, variation in the price of child care and domestic productivity differences as determinants of across-household heterogeneity in second earner labor supply, and of the resulting relationship between household income and the well-being of household members. A central result is that taking account of a richer and more realistic specification of household time use widens the set of cases in which individual taxation is welfare-superior.

Keywords: optimal taxation, labour supply, time use, child care, household production, inequality

JEL Classification: H210, J220, H310, H240

Suggested Citation:

Apps, Patricia F. and Rees, Ray, Optimal Taxation, Child Care and Models of the Household (January 30, 2014). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4578, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2390591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2390591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Alesina , A Ichino , L Karabarbounis
Gender based taxation and the division of family chores
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Almond , J Currie
Human capital development before age …ve
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1315 - 1480 Posted: 2011
P Apps , N Long , R Rees
Optimal piecewise linear income taxation
Journal of Public Economic Theory Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Apps , R Rees
Taxation and the household
Journal of Public Economics , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 69 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
RANK
534,865
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies