Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Back to the Drawing Board: The Structural and Accounting Consequences of a Switch to a Territorial Tax System

National Tax Journal, Vol. 66, No. 3, 2013

43 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2014

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Gary A. McGill

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Edmund Outslay

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: February 3, 2014

Abstract

We review the basics of international tax planning by U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) and the organizational structures that facilitate such planning. We then discuss the potential impacts that adopting a participation exemption regime (i.e., a territorial tax system) along the lines proposed by Representative Camp could have on a U.S. MNC’s worldwide supply chain structure and financing arrangements. We compare the change in a corporation’s global accounting effective tax rate under the current U.S. worldwide tax system and four participation exemption options proposed by Representative Camp. Using a hypothetical set of facts representative of a U.S. multinational with highly mobile intellectual property income, we show that the options produce very different accounting effective tax rates and tax revenues received by the U.S. Treasury. We also point out potential tax planning strategies that could be employed pre- and post-effective date of the implementation of a participation exemption system that would change the expected revenue to be received during the transition to such a system.

Keywords: international taxation, tax reform, territorial tax system

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and McGill, Gary A. and Outslay, Edmund, Back to the Drawing Board: The Structural and Accounting Consequences of a Switch to a Territorial Tax System (February 3, 2014). National Tax Journal, Vol. 66, No. 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2390357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Max Baucus , Dave Camp
Tax Reform Is Very Much Alive and Doable; Closing Special-Interest Loopholes Will Help Lower Rates and Boost the Economy
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2013-04-07
Jack T Ciesielski
Testimony
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Posted: 2012-09-20
Timothy D Cook
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Posted: 2013-05-21
Llp Deloitte
Five Ways a Conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards Could Impact a Global Tax Structure
Deloitte LLP Posted: 2008
Load more
2 Citations
Michael P. Donohoe , Gary A. McGill , Edmund Outslay
The Geometry of International Tax Planning After the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: A Riff on Circles, Squares, and Triangles
National Tax Journal, Forthcoming · 33 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 488
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paul Demere , Michael P. Donohoe , Petro Lisowsky
The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,051
RANK
282,998
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies