Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Companies Fund Their Defined Benefit Pension Plans?

Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 13-23, 2014

12 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2014

Denise A. Jones

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This paper extends the accounting academic literature on pension funding strategy by looking at a more recent data set, directly examining contributions to defined benefit pension plans, and considering the effect of changing economic conditions over time on pension plan funding. I find that the average funded status of defined benefit pension plans has changed over time in response to changing market conditions. In addition, managers respond to these changes differently depending on firm specific incentives to make contributions to their pension plans. I find that companies that have employees protected by unions, more costly plans, higher levels of cash from operations, higher levels of plan underfunding, tax incentives, and debt contracting incentives contribute more to their pension plans. In contrast, I find that companies with other investment opportunities for their free cash, and companies with pension plans assets earning higher returns contribute less to their pension plans. This paper has implications for regulators and standard setters considering how to deal with pension funding shortfalls, accounting professionals auditing companies with pension plans, CFOs determining their company’s pension funding strategy, and investors and creditors evaluating the risks that companies with defined benefit pension plans are taking on.

Keywords: Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension Plans, Pension Plan Funded Status

JEL Classification: J32, M41, M59

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Denise A., When Do Companies Fund Their Defined Benefit Pension Plans? (2014). Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 13-23, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance Pricing in Bank Debt Contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Asthana
Determinants of Funding Strategies and Actuarial Choices for Defined-benefit Pension Plans
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 74 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Atanasova , K Hrazdil
Why do Healthy Firms Freeze their Defined Benefit Pension Plans?
Global Finance Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 293 - 303 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E Chasan
AT&T Pension Plan Gets Boost
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2013-09-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
446,627
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies