Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Which Tax Rates Investors Use for Equity Valuation

44 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2014 Last revised: 12 Sep 2017

Kathleen Schuchard

University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Andrew Schmidt

North Carolina State University

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: September 10, 2017

Abstract

Although income tax expense is a significant input to valuation models, little empirical evidence exists about which rates investors incorporate. The limited guidance available suggests investors should use the marginal tax rate (MTR), but it is unclear whether investors follow this guidance. We therefore examine the value relevance of simulated MTRs along with tax rates that are less costly to obtain. Across a battery of tests, we find that the top U.S. statutory rate (STR) is more associated with firm value than estimated MTRs, prior-year effective tax rates (ETR), prior three-year average ETRs or prior-year industry-average ETRs. However, we find some evidence that the value relevance of other tax rates increases when those rates reflect firm-specific tax benefits not captured by the STR. This study advances the valuation of tax literature and informs management and standard setters of investors’ use of tax information.

Keywords: Valuation, Tax expense, Stock returns

JEL Classification: G12, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schuchard, Kathleen and Schmidt, Andrew P. and Seidman, Jeri K. and Stomberg, Bridget, Examining Which Tax Rates Investors Use for Equity Valuation (September 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2391891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Prithviraj Banerjee , Soumya Guha Deb , Soumya Guha Deb , Pradip Banerjee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy: Evidence from India
Pages: 22 Posted: 15 Jan 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Harald Johannes Amberger , Eva Eberhartinger , Matthias Kasper
Tax-Rate Biases in Tax Decisions: Experimental Evidence
Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming Pages: 51 Posted: 29 Feb 2016 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Ayers , X Jiang , S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Alissa Bruehne , Martin Jacob , Harm H. Schütt
Technological Changes and Countries’ Tax Policy Design: Evidence from Anti–Tax Avoidance Rules
forthcoming, Management Science, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 12 · 60 Pages · Posted: 31 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 12 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 588
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,072
RANK
167,202
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies