Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Assurance Level and Tax Status on the Tendency of Relatively Small Manufacturers to Manage Production and Earnings

Posted: 15 Feb 2014

Benjamin P. Foster

University of Louisville

John M. Mueller

St. Edwards University; California State University, Fresno

Trimbak Shastri

University of Louisville - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 13, 2014

Abstract

The number and importance of private companies in the United States indicates that reliable quality of financial accounting reports (QFAR) useful to users of private companies may be important for the growth of the economy. Most previous research examining QFAR addressed earnings management among publicly-traded companies. Our study extends prior literature on earnings management by manufacturing companies by examining whether abnormal production of public and private companies is impacted by (i) assurance type (PCAOB-audit, GAAS-audit, and Review), (ii) tax status (separately taxed versus pass-through entity) of private companies, and (iii) relative size. Overall, publicly traded companies tend to have significantly negative abnormal production while separately taxed private companies have significantly positive abnormal production. Not identified in previous studies, we find that abnormal production of similarly sized public companies and private companies differ. When examining companies that just met the benchmark of prior years' earnings or zero earnings we found positive abnormal production for publicly traded companies and privately held audited-taxable companies. These results indicate that public and private audited-taxable manufacturing companies are most likely to appear to manage earnings upwards and engage in management of production. Our findings provide evidence relevant to the Big GAAP/Little GAAP debate and that public and private company financial statement users may not be well satisfied with one set of accounting standards.

Keywords: audit versus review, earnings management; private companies

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Foster, Benjamin P. and Mueller, John M. and Shastri, Trimbak, Impact of Assurance Level and Tax Status on the Tendency of Relatively Small Manufacturers to Manage Production and Earnings (February 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2395407
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,567
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies