Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CCCTB – The Employment Factor Game

European Journal of Law and Economics, June 2015

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2014 - 01

35 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2014 Last revised: 20 Jul 2015

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The draft for a CCCTB Directive in the EU includes the suggestion for an apportionment formula which allocates taxable profits to group member corporations and to the respective Member States. The draft directive delegates the right to define one apportionment factor, the term ‘Employee’ to the Member States, which can choose a narrow or a broad definition, the latter including also atypical employment schemes. Using a game-theoretic approach we show that defining ‘Employee’ broadly so as to maximize the Member State’s share in the apportionment factor is only optimal when tax rate differences and different sizes of atypical employment schemes are disregarded. If such differentials and the multinational corporation’s reactions to different domestic definitions are included a narrow definition of ‘Employee’ yields the highest individual pay-offs to the countries involved. Our paper differs from previous research on the economic effects of the CCCTB apportionment formula as it is the first analysing the employment factor and its distortive effects. We discuss possible tax minimizing strategies for multinationals by shifting employment and develop a model to quantify these potential relocations. The results of our paper may be relevant for the European Commission and the Council, when debating the details of formula apportionment. Furthermore we show how Member States could use the ‘Employee’ definition to both minimize factor emigration and maximize factor immigration, if the factor definitions remain unchanged.

Keywords: CCCTB, Game Theory, Formulary Apportionment, Group Taxation, Corporate Income Tax, Dependent Self-Employed

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Petutschnig, Matthias, CCCTB – The Employment Factor Game (2014). European Journal of Law and Economics, June 2015, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2014 - 01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2397283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2397283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
B N Anand , R Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy
National Tax Journal , p. 183 - 200 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Axelrod , R O Keohane
Achieving cooperation under anarchy: strategies and institutions
World Politics , volume 38 , p. 226 - 54 Posted: 1985
Crossref
L Bettendorf
Posted: 2010
Crossref
Corporate tax harmonization in the EU
Economic Policy , volume 25 , p. 539 - 590
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,284
RANK
191,613
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies