Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Future of Tax Salience Scholarship: Operative Mechanisms and Limiting Factors

Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 173, 2013

32 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2014 Last revised: 25 Nov 2014

David Gamage

University of Missouri School of Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This Essay — written for Florida State University’s symposium on the 100th anniversary of the U.S. federal income tax — evaluates how the literature on tax salience should be advanced in order for it to better guide tax policy over the coming decades. The literature on tax salience analyzes how taxpayers account for the costs imposed by taxation when the taxpayers make decisions or judgments, both in the taxpayers’ roles as voters and as market participants. This Essay evaluates both possible operative mechanisms that might underlie observed tax salience effects and limiting factors that might prevent tax salience effects from materializing in real-world policy contexts.

Keywords: tax salience, cognition, psychology, perception, tax rates, voter, economics, fiscal

Suggested Citation:

Gamage, David, On the Future of Tax Salience Scholarship: Operative Mechanisms and Limiting Factors (2013). Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 173, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2397582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
B Jeffrey , J Liebman &amp; Richard , Zeckhauser
Id. at 4-5. There are, of course, many other categorization schemas in the literature for factors affecting learning from experience. See, e.g., Bar-Gill & Ferrari, supra note 107 , p. 5 - 6 Posted: 2004-10
Colin F Camerer , ; Noll , Krier
Studies show that learning is difficult unless feedback is clear, frequent, and quick
19 J. LEGAL STUD , volume 791 Posted: 1990
&amp; Liebman , Zeckhauser
This condition is related to how temporal gaps can induce bounded rationality by making it more difficult to predict the tax consequences of a decision , volume 112
See Olivia Mitchell &amp; Stephen Utkus
Lessons from Behavioral Finance for Retirement Plan Design 35 (Pension Research Council Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
RANK
223,632
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies