Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Nonrecourse Litigation Funding

2014 JLTR Conference

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

John Gamino

Texas State University, San Marcos

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the implications of the recent and growing phenomenon of nonrecourse third-party litigation funding. The proliferating acceptance and use of such funding raises elemental federal income tax issues of characterization and timing both for funding providers and for civil plaintiffs accepting such funding in exchange for an agreement to share the cash proceeds of any settlement or judgment. Explaining and emphasizing the commercial (business-to-business) market for litigation funding as it has evolved, this paper addresses the implicit tax compliance issues by testing optional guidance models that may apply by analogy. It concludes by identifying the single model that should apply and offers a pro forma revenue ruling as a starting point for the government's further consideration of the issues and early promulgation of administrative guidance.

Suggested Citation:

Gamino, John, Taxing Nonrecourse Litigation Funding (February 25, 2014). 2014 JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies