Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading and IRC Section 6103(e)

2014 JLTR Conference

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

Roby B. Sawyers

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

David Baumer

North Carolina State University - Department of Business Management

Wade Chumney

California State University Northridge

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

Tax returns, including corporate returns, are generally confidential and not disclosed to the public. However, in certain circumstances Internal Revenue Code provides that corporate shareholders, who meet a one-percent ownership criterion, can request from the IRS a copy of the corporate tax return. In this paper, we discuss the legislative history of Code Section 6103 and its precursors which provide for disclosure of tax returns to shareholders who own more than one percent of the capital stock. We then provide examples of the valuable proprietary information that is included in corporate tax returns. Next, we provide a history and discussion of the insider trading laws and argue that the information content of a corporate tax return is such that it provides material non-public information that is not readily available in annual reports or other public documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (receives the corporate return and who subsequently makes purchases and/or sales of corporate stock should constitute illegal insider trading.

Keywords: Insider trading, confidentiality, corporate tax returns

Suggested Citation:

Sawyers, Roby B. and Baumer, David and Chumney, Wade, Insider Trading and IRC Section 6103(e) (February 25, 2014). 2014 JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401186
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,618
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies