Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling Shareholders’ Incentive and Corporate Tax Avoidance – A Natural Experiment in China

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2014 Last revised: 12 Apr 2017

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Hang Liu

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

Date Written: February 12, 2017

Abstract

The split share structure reform in China aligned the incentive of controlling shareholders with that of minority shareholders by granting trading rights to previously non-tradable shares. We find that the reform increases firms’ tax avoidance activities that are value-enhancing. However, the change in tax avoidance is only observed in state-owned firms where, compared to non-state-owned firms, the agency conflict between the controlling shareholder (the government) and minority shareholders is aggravated due to the fact that the former also serves as the tax claimant. Further, this effect is more pronounced in state-owned firms that are more likely to be influenced by the government prior to the reform. Finally, the reform reinforces a positive association between tax avoidance and firm value through an improvement in governance.

Keywords: tax avoidance, split share structure reform, agency conflict, controlling shareholder

JEL Classification: G18, G30, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Li, Oliver Zhen and Liu, Hang and Ni, Chenkai, Controlling Shareholders’ Incentive and Corporate Tax Avoidance – A Natural Experiment in China (February 12, 2017). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2401619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate Governance, Incentives, and Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T Atwood , M Drake , J Myers , L Myers
Home Country Tax System Characteristics and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence
Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 60 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Bai , Q Liu , J Lu , F Song , J Zhang
Corporate Governance and Market Valuation in China
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 559 - 616 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,982
RANK
115,646
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies