Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Planning to Minimize the Risks and Maximize the Rewards of the Estate Portability Election

2014 JLTR Conference

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

William Duncan

Arizona State University

John Everett

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

William A. Raabe

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

Estate tax planning has been substantially changed with the enactment of the carryover of unused estate tax exclusion amounts from the first spouse to die to the estate of the second spouse. Termed portability, the availability of the deceased spouse’s unused exclusion amount (DSUEA) largely eliminates the need for a series of lifetime asset transfers to balance estates and maximize the use of the exclusions. It also opens an opportunity for a double basis increase adjustment, one when the first spouse dies and a second when the surviving spouse dies. Where the DSUEA is sufficient to offset the additional inclusion from estate taxation in whole or in part, there may be an advantage to using the marital deduction to avoid inclusion in the tax base until the second demise. We explore the combination of estate asset values, appreciation expectations, and appropriate properties within the context of planning with the portability election, as well as the risk variables associated with such planning strategies.

Suggested Citation:

Duncan, William and Everett, John and Raabe, William A., Planning to Minimize the Risks and Maximize the Rewards of the Estate Portability Election (February 25, 2014). 2014 JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401155
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies