Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Executive Compensation: Evidence from Stock Options

48 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2014 Last revised: 18 Mar 2016

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 17, 2016

Abstract

Understanding the effects of taxes on executive compensation provides insight into the process determining this compensation and is a key input to policymakers considering changes in top income tax rates. A recent tax reform in Canada, which greatly increased the effective tax rate on stock option compensation for a subset of firms, by removing a deduction previously available at the corporate level, provides a natural experiment with which to address this question. I collect a novel panel dataset of executive compensation for the period 2008-2011. Findings from a difference-in-differences strategy suggest that this tax increase resulted in a relatively immediate reduction in both stock option grants and the fraction of total compensation made up of stock options. There appears to have been limited, if any, substitution towards other components of compensation, such as cash bonuses or grants of shares. Hence, the burden of the tax must have been substantially borne by the affected executives. This finding is in contrast with much of the extant literature, which typically has not found evidence for tax incentives as important drivers of executive compensation.

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew, Taxation and Executive Compensation: Evidence from Stock Options (March 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401152 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2401152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
David Aboody , Mary E Barth , Ron Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 stock-based compensation expense and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Jeffery R Austin , Jennifer J Gaver , Kenneth M Gaver
The choice of incentive stock options vs. nonqualified options: A marginal tax rate perspective
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 20 , issue 2 Posted: 1998
Ilona Babenko , Yuri Tserlukevich
Analyzing the tax benefits from employee stock options
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 1797 - 1825 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Steven Balsam , Robert Halperin , Haim A Mozes
Tax costs and nontax benefits: the case of incentive stock options
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,224
RANK
120,303
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies