Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Tax Expense: A Discount Rate Explanation

2014 JATA Conference

55 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2014 Last revised: 21 Apr 2016

Erin Henry

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 2015

Abstract

I investigate the information content of income tax expense using variance decomposition to separate stock returns into cash flow and discount rate news components. While prior literature has focused on linking tax expense with expected future cash flows, I provide arguments for why tax expense should also be informative about expected returns. Consistent with my arguments, I find that tax expense surprises are correlated with both revisions in future cash flows and revisions in discount rates; however, the economic magnitude of tax expense’s impact on returns is through the discount rate channel. After decomposing total tax expense into portions arising from earnings management and tax avoidance activities, I find consistent evidence that earnings management through the tax accounts has a negative effect on discount rates and inconsistent evidence regarding tax avoidance’s role in the discount rate implications of tax expense. Thus, my findings provide a more comprehensive understanding of the valuation implications of and exact mechanisms through which tax expense enters into firm returns.

Keywords: Valuation of tax expense; earnings management through tax accounts; tax avoidance; discount rate news

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Erin, The Information Content of Tax Expense: A Discount Rate Explanation (June 2015). 2014 JATA Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2401150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,453
RANK
219,770
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies