Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness of Tax and Non-Tax Incentives and Investments: Evidence and Policy Implications

72 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2014 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Sebastian James

Duke University

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper is an update of an earlier 2009 paper and analyzes the role of Tax Incentives in promoting investment, their effectiveness and their revenue and other costs and political economy. The paper consolidates econometric work on the topic done by the authors covering the Caribbean, Francophone Africa and India; surveys of Investors in Jordan, Mozambique, Nicaragua and Serbia; and literature review. Building on existing literature on the subject and country experience with Incentives, the paper then examines the role of Investment Climate on the effectiveness of Incentives. Using cross-country data the paper finds that fiscal Incentives are particularly ineffective in attracting Investment in countries with poor Investment Climate. This is striking because it broadly supports country experience with incentives having been used successfully to encourage investment in some countries while failing in others. Very recent evidence suggests that governance has a similar effect with low tax rates being more effective in attracting foreign investments in better governed countries. Both these point to the importance a strong Investment Climate as well as strong institutions as a pre-requisite for the effectiveness of any investment promotion scheme using Incentives. The policy implications for a sound Incentive policy as well as the management and administration of Incentives are discussed.

Keywords: Tax Incentives, Tax Policy, Investment Policy

JEL Classification: H2, E62

Suggested Citation:

James, Sebastian, Effectiveness of Tax and Non-Tax Incentives and Investments: Evidence and Policy Implications (September 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2401905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Y Aharoni
The Foreign Investment Decision Process. Division of Research, Graduate School of Business Administration Posted: 1966
Baldwin Richard , Krugman Paul
Agglomeration, integration and tax harmonization
European Economic Review , volume 48 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Richard Miller Bird
Tax Challenges Facing Developing Countries
Institute for International Business Working Paper No. 9 Pages: 33 Posted: 31 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Bolnick
Effectiveness and Economic Impact of Tax Incentives in the SADC Region Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,635
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,257
RANK
7,134
26 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies