Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dreaming the Impossible Dream: Is a Wealth Tax Now Possible in America?

U of Akron Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14-01

33 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2014 Last revised: 4 Mar 2014

Richard Lavoie

University of Akron - School of Law

Date Written: March 2, 2014

Abstract

It is often thought that a direct tax on individual wealth is a political non-starter in the United States. Not only is such a tax arguably unconstitutional, but as a psychological matter it goes against the American psyche. That is, each of us hold out hope that someday we might become rich too, so we will not support any tax perceived as a “soak the rich” ploy. But has wealth inequality in the United States now reached the breaking point? Might recent public attention to the issue of economic inequality indicate that it might be possible to make a wealth tax a reality? This article will examine the utility and political viability of adopting a wealth tax in the United States.

Keywords: tax, wealth inequality

Suggested Citation:

Lavoie, Richard, Dreaming the Impossible Dream: Is a Wealth Tax Now Possible in America? (March 2, 2014). U of Akron Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2402978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2402978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
John D. Stowe
Wealth Taxes and Capital Markets
16 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 273
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,942
RANK
136,584
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies