Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and the Cost of Equity Capital: An International Analysis

45 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2014 Last revised: 4 Jun 2014

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Linda K. Krull

University of Oregon

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Date Written: June 3, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between taxes and the cost of equity capital in an international setting that allows for exogenous, cross-sectional variation in corporate and investor tax rates. Using a sample of firms from 33 countries over a 21-year period, we find that the cost of equity capital increases in leverage. This effect decreases in the corporate tax rate as well as the personal tax penalty on interest income relative to equity income, though the significance of this latter result is sensitive to model specification. Further, we find that the cost of equity capital increases in tax penalized dividend income and that cross-border equity investments affect the relation between taxes and the cost of equity capital. In sum, we offer further and confirming evidence, in an international setting, that taxes impact the cost of equity capital.

Keywords: Dividend tax, leverage, cost of capital

JEL Classification: F23, G35, H25, H24

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Krull, Linda K. and Li, Oliver Zhen, Tax and the Cost of Equity Capital: An International Analysis (June 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2402009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2402009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
B C Ayers , C B Cloyd , J R Robinson
The effect of shareholder-level dividend taxes on stock prices: evidence from the revenue reconciliation act of 1993
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 933 - 947 Posted: 2002
Crossref
F Black , M Scholes
The effect of dividend yield and dividend policy on common stock prices and returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1974
Crossref
L Booth , V Aivazian , A Demirguc-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Capital structures in developing countries
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 87 - 130 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Brennan
Taxes, market valuation, and corporate financial policy
National Tax Journal , volume 23 , p. 417 - 427 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,619
RANK
232,542
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies