Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Risk as the Likelihood of an Unfavorable Settlement with Tax Authorities

2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

Andrew Bauer

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 3, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we examine tax risk as the likelihood that a firm will face an unexpected and negative tax outcome. More specifically, we predict the probability that a firm will have an unfavorable settlement with tax authorities, what we define as a tax loss event. We further consider whether market participants anticipate this risk and consequently how they react to the tax loss event. We combine an industry-adjusted measure of high cash effective tax rate (Cash ETR) values with financial statement verification of a tax settlement to identify a sample of tax loss event firms. To predict the likelihood of these events, we develop a logistic model from a parsimonious set of factors that are associated with tax risk. Empirical tests show that our model provides strong predictions of a tax loss event. Additional tests show that our model performs well against a matched set of holdout control observations – that is, observations with unusually high Cash ETR values yet no tax settlement. In related valuation tests, the abnormal returns are negative in the event year for firms with a tax loss event and high ETR volatility, suggesting that investors may not recognize the risk beforehand. These results imply that the market punishes firms that appear to poorly manage the financial reporting of tax risk, yet only when they subsequently reveal a significant tax settlement. Our research adds to the emerging literature that examines the tax risk within firms. Specifically, we develop a prediction model useful for various firm stakeholders, as well as provide additional insight into the factors that create risk for the firm and how the market reacts to the revelation of such risks.

Keywords: tax risk, risk management, cash effective tax rates, tax settlement

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew and Klassen, Kenneth, Tax Risk as the Likelihood of an Unfavorable Settlement with Tax Authorities (March 3, 2014). 2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2403946
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,943
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies