Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Depreciation of Intellectual Property - Going, Going…Gone!

27 INTELL. PROP. L. BULL no. 2 (2014)

7 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2014 Last revised: 21 Aug 2014

Sarah Hinchliffe

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business; William & Mary Law School

Date Written: January 10, 2014

Abstract

Intangible assets can create much more value when they are managed in a tax efficient manner. The tax system, in particular the income tax and capital gains tax (CGT) regimes, offer incentives and pose traps for entities who exploit intangible assets. It is not uncommon for IP lawyers to encounter tax queries, including:

• Taxation implications when an IP asset is disposed of; • The tax treatment of expenses incurred in creating, or acquiring, IP assets; • Taxation minimization strategies with respect to the above mentioned; • The tax treatment when seeking to quantify, or obtain, remedies in a matter concerning IP assets.

This article focuses on the first two, and addresses some key issues for consideration by lawyers in boutique, and medium-sized firms who have been exposed to minimal tax law.

Some of the key take-away points that lawyers should be aware of, include:

• That some IP assets may be depreciated; • Depreciation of an IP asset may be deductible under the income tax regime while the asset is held; • Before an IP asset is depreciated, the value of the IP asset must be ascertained; • If an IP asset has been depreciated, then the total depreciation amount must be accounted for when the asset is disposed; • There exist different standards for valuing and reporting IP under Accounting Standards, than under taxation law.

Key features of taxation minimization, and repercussions of taxation anti-avoidance (both domestically, and as a result of locating IP assets offshore), are discussed in a subsequent article.

Keywords: Depreciation, Accounting, Taxation, Intellectual Property, IP Asset

Suggested Citation:

Hinchliffe, Sarah, Depreciation of Intellectual Property - Going, Going…Gone! (January 10, 2014). 27 INTELL. PROP. L. BULL no. 2 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2403252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,171
RANK
74,813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies