Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did FIN 48 Improve Comparability in the Financial Reporting of Income Taxes?

2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

John D. Phillips

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Valerie Tellez

University of Connecticut

Date Written: March 3, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates whether Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, improved comparability in the financial reporting of income tax expense. This research is important because it provides evidence on whether the standard improved comparability in accounting for income taxes. It also provides evidence useful to market participants in evaluating the decision usefulness of reported tax information. We use a comparability measure developed by De Franco et al. (2011) and, by definition, compute the comparability of income tax expense as the difference in comparability between pre-tax and after-tax income. We find that FIN 48 improved the comparability of income tax expense for more tax aggressive firms and firms that managed earnings prior to the issuance of FIN 48. This evidence is consistent with improved consistency in the measurement and recognition of uncertain tax benefits under FIN 48 leading to an improvement in income tax expense comparability for firms most likely to have greater uncertain tax positions and for firms that used the tax reserve to opportunistically manage earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, John D. and Tellez, Valerie, Did FIN 48 Improve Comparability in the Financial Reporting of Income Taxes? (March 3, 2014). 2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404048
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies