Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Forecasts and the Permanence of the Tax Change Component of Earnings

2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Andrew Schmidt

North Carolina State University

Kelly Wentland

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: March 3, 2014

Abstract

Despite the central importance of equity analysts as information intermediaries in capital markets, prior studies provide only limited evidence on how analysts use tax information reported in financial statements. To seek a deeper understanding of the mechanisms that underlie analysts’ use of tax information in GAAP financial statements, we investigate the association between sell-side equity analysts’ forecasts and the change in earnings attributable to a change in ETRs (i.e., the tax change component of earnings). We provide evidence that the persistence of the tax change component of earnings embedded in analysts’ forecasts is systematically lower than that implied by our model’s time-series properties. Recent research shows that the persistence of the tax change component of earnings is a complex combination of both the persistence of pretax earnings and the persistence of the ETR. We provide evidence that the analysts’ underestimation of the tax change component of earnings is primarily attributable to analysts’ failure to impound the full implications of the difference between permanent and transitory ETR changes. The results also provide strong evidence that analysts’ underreaction to the tax change component of earnings is significantly attenuated when managers voluntarily provide earnings forecasts. Further, analysts’ incorporation of tax information into earnings forecasts becomes less biased after Regulation FD. This research answers the call from Graham, Raedy, and Shackelford (2012) for more research into the underlying fundamentals of tax-based information prepared in accordance with GAAP, and the extent to which various financial statement users, including sophisticated market participants such as equity analysts, use tax-based information.

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sangwan and Schmidt, Andrew P. and Wentland, Kelly, Analyst Forecasts and the Permanence of the Tax Change Component of Earnings (March 3, 2014). 2014 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404051
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies