Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Attractiveness and the Location of German-Controlled Subsidiaries

arqus Discussion Paper No. 142

51 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2014

Andreas Dinkel

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Sara Keller

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2014

Abstract

This paper analyzes whether taxation has an influence on the location decisions of multinational enterprises. As a tax measure, we employ a novel measure of tax attractiveness, the Tax Attractiveness Index. This index covers 18 different tax factors, such as the taxation of dividends and capital gains, withholding taxes, the existence of a group taxation regime, and thin capitalization rules. Our count data regression analysis is based on a novel hand-collected data set consisting of the subsidiaries of German DAX30 companies in 97 countries. Controlling for non-tax effects, we find that a country’s tax environment as measured by the Tax Attractiveness Index has a significantly positive effect on the number of German-controlled subsidiaries located there. Hence, our study implies that location decisions depend on a bundle of tax factors as captured by the index. In a second step, we show that the location decisions of German DAX30 companies cannot be explained by the statutory tax rate alone. In contrast, withholding taxes, double tax treaty networks, and special holding regimes seem to play a decisive role in location decisions. Previous studies examining only the influence of statutory tax rates may thus have underestimated the effects of taxation on the activities of multinational companies and suffer from omitted variable bias.

Keywords: International taxation; Tax attractiveness; Statutory tax rate; Location decision; Multina-tional enterprise; Composite index

JEL Classification: H25, H26, F23

Suggested Citation:

Dinkel, Andreas and Keller, Sara and Schanz, Deborah, Tax Attractiveness and the Location of German-Controlled Subsidiaries (March 13, 2014). arqus Discussion Paper No. 142, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert , T S Newlon , J R Hines , Jr
Has U.S. investment abroad become more sensitive to tax rates?
International Taxation and Multinational Activity , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodème
International taxation and multinational firm location decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Becker , C Fuest
Internationalization and business tax revenue -evidence from Germany
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 17 , p. 174 - 192 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S O Becker , P H Egger , V Merlo
How low business tax rates attract MNE activity: municipality-level evidence from Germany
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 698 - 711 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,342
RANK
285,369
4 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies