Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitudes Toward Tax Evasion: A Demographic Study of the Netherlands

73 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2014

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Adriana Ross

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: March 17, 2014

Abstract

A number of studies have examined the relationship between tax collection and various demographic variables. However, until recently most of those studies have involved a United States sample population. The Internal Revenue Service provides demographic data for researchers on a regular basis. The present study goes beyond those studies in several important ways. For one, it uses data on the Netherlands taken from the World Values database. Not much work has been done on the Netherlands tax or public finance system. Thus, the present study expands on the very limited research done on the Netherlands public finance.

The present study expands on existing literature in at least two other ways as well. For one, it examines how various demographics interact with attitudes toward tax evasion. Secondly, we examine several demographic variables that were not examined in prior studies.

One of the questions in the World Values database asked whether it would be justifiable to cheat on taxes if it were possible to do so. Respondents were asked to choose a number from 1 to 10 to indicate the extent of their support for tax evasion. This study examines those responses, both overall and through the prism of more than 20 demographic variables. A trend analysis is also done to determine whether Netherlands attitudes regarding tax evasion have changed in recent years. A comparison is made with other ethical issues to determine the relative seriousness of tax evasion.

The study found that attitudes toward the justifiability of tax evasion often do vary by demographic variable. Tax evasion was found to be a less serious offense than wife beating, claiming government benefits to which you are not entitled and avoiding a fare on public transport and more serious than suicide, abortion, prostitution, euthanasia, divorce or homosexuality. The trend of opinion on the justifiability of tax evasion has been on a linear path since the first survey was conducted in 1981. Since then, tax evasion has been viewed as an increasingly serious offense over time.

Although the present study focuses on the Netherlands, the methodology used in the present study could serve as a template for research on other countries or regions. A bibliography of further reading is also included, along with links to more than 80 other tax evasion studies.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, empirical study, demographic variables, gender, age, education level, employment status, income level, occupation, marital status, family size, religion, size of town, social class, happiness, health, political spectrum, income inequality, competition, confidence in government,

JEL Classification: H26, A13, A14, D63, E26, I1, I2, J1, J12, J14, J16, K34, K42, M4, O17, O52, Y5

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Ross, Adriana, Attitudes Toward Tax Evasion: A Demographic Study of the Netherlands (March 17, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2410557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2410557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
246 References
C Adams
Fight, Flight and Fraud: The Story of Taxation Posted: 1982
C Adams
For Good or Evil: The Impact of Taxes on the Course of Civilization Posted: 1993
M Ahmad
Business Ethics in Islam. Islamabad, Pakistan: The International Institute of Islamic Thought & The International Institute of Islamic Economics Posted: 1995
I P Akaah
The Influence of Organizational Rank and Role on Marketing Professionals' Ethical Judgments
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 605 - 613 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,999
RANK
273,040
9 Citations
246 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies