Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Professionals' View of the Spanish Tax System: Efficiency, Equity and Tax Planning

IEB Working Paper N. 2014/5

29 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2014

Alejandro Esteller-More

University of Barcelona

José Ma. Duran-Cabré

University of Barcelona

Date Written: March 17, 2014

Abstract

The design of a tax system is a daunting task. Economies have become increasingly complex, which makes the design of taxes has to take into account behavioral taxpayers' responses -- including mobility -- but also tax planning issues. Additionally, increasing inequality trends put more pressure on design. This complex framework increases the need of complete and constantly updated information about the functioning of the system to carry out welfare-enhancing reforms and having stable sources of public funding. It seems now the moment the Spanish tax system takes advantage of all sources of information to undertake a necessary reform. For this ambitious purpose, we aim at providing a novel source of information: the (objective) opinion of tax professionals. From a survey all over Spain, tax professionals unanimously conclude the current tax system is unfair, while the main inefficiencies, rather than due to traditional responses, come out as a consequence of tax planning and tax mobility. We hope the complete results of the survey are a useful source of information.

Keywords: Tax reform, efficiency, equity, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H20, H29

Suggested Citation:

Esteller-More, Alejandro and Duran-Cabré, José Ma., Tax Professionals' View of the Spanish Tax System: Efficiency, Equity and Tax Planning (March 17, 2014). IEB Working Paper N. 2014/5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2410873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2410873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
E Albi
Propuestas de reforma para el Impuesto sobre Sociedades (y otras propuestas tributarias de la UE)
Por una verdadera reforma fiscal Posted: 2013
R Boadway , E Chamberlain , C Emmerson
Taxation of Wealth and Wealth Transfers" in Dimensions of Tax Design: the Mirrlees Review Posted: 2009
S Cnossen
Taxing Capital Income in the Nordic Countries: A Model for the European Union?
Finanzarchiv , volume 56 , p. 18 - 50 Posted: 1999
S Cnossen
Global trends and issues in value added taxation
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 5 , p. 399 - 428 Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Dorina Plaku , Eglantina Hysa
Research Anthology on Macroeconomics and the Achievement of Global Stability
, p. 1583 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,468
RANK
631,616
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies