Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Inside Debt Incentives and Corporate Tax Policy

43 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2014

Sabrina Chi

CSU Fullerton

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: March 16, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the relation between CEO inside debt holdings (pension benefits and deferred compensation) and corporate tax avoidance. Because inside debt holdings are generally unsecured and unfunded liabilities of the firm, CEOs are exposed to risk similar to that faced by outside creditors. As such, theory suggests that inside debt holdings negatively impact CEO risk-appetite. To the extent that aggressive tax policies involve significant cash flow shortfalls, high cash flow volatility, and losses in firm and CEO reputation in the future, we expect that inside debt holdings will curb CEOs from engaging in risky tax strategies. Consistent with the prediction, we document a negative association between CEO inside debt holdings and tax avoidance. Overall, our results highlight the importance of investigating the implication of CEO debt-like compensation for firm tax policies.

Keywords: Inside Debt, Deferred Compensation, Incentives, Executive Compensation, Tax Aggressiveness, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: G00, H26, H25, J33, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Sabrina and Huang, Shawn X. and Sanchez, Juan Manuel, CEO Inside Debt Incentives and Corporate Tax Policy (March 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2410454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2410454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,809
RANK
163,928
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies