Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
iTax - Apple's International Tax Structure and the Double Non-Taxation Issue

British Tax Review 2014 No.1

32 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2014 Last revised: 16 Apr 2014

Antony Ting

University of Sydney

Date Written: March 19, 2014

Abstract

Apple, famous for its innovative products, has proved to be equally creative in its tax structure. From 2009 to 2012, it successfully sheltered US $44 billion from taxation anywhere in the world. An unusual feature of its tax structure is the relative simplicity: it does not rely on the Double Irish Dutch Sandwich structure that has been commonly used by other US multinationals. A recent parliamentary hearing in the US revealed detailed information about Apple’s tax structure, which is difficult, if not impossible, to discern from its financial statements. At the same time, interesting information and issues of tax avoidance by multinational enterprises from the perspective of source countries were also revealed in parliamentary committee hearings in the UK.

The aim of this paper is twofold. First, it analyses the international tax structure of Apple and investigates how it achieved the double non-taxation of US $44 billion. The analysis reveals that the US government has knowingly facilitated its MNEs to avoid foreign income tax, thus creating double non-taxation. It also highlights the structural issues of domestic and international tax rules that enable the creation of the double non-taxed income. Second, the paper reviews the possible responses of both the residence and source countries to Apple’s tax avoidance structure, and argues that two issues are important in the design of effective solutions to the problem. First, the application of enterprise doctrine – under which a corporate group under the common control of a parent company is treated as one single entity – is more likely to produce effective measures to tackle MNEs’ tax avoidance transactions. Second, the increase in transparency, in particular a properly designed country-by-country reporting regime, would be a much needed weapon for tax authorities which at present suffer from information asymmetry in the tax avoidance battle with MNEs.

Keywords: Apple, tax avoidance, double non-taxation, BEPS, taxation of corporate groups

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Antony, iTax - Apple's International Tax Structure and the Double Non-Taxation Issue (March 19, 2014). British Tax Review 2014 No.1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2411297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Country-by-country reporting is frequently proposed as a measure to strengthen the armoury of tax authorities in the battle against BEPS by MNEs. Under the proposal, a MNE has to disclose
In a parliamentary committee hearing about BEPS, a member of the UK House of the Lords made an interesting analogy: "in general in warfare it is a rather bad idea to send a small, lightly armed battalion against the massed ranks of a huge army
Tax avoidance: the role of large accountancy firms , volume 6 Posted: 2013
The OECD recognises that
Crossref
UK House of Lords Select Committee on Economic Affairs, Taxing Corporations in a Global Economy: Is a New Approach Needed?-Oral and Written Evidence Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Hansrudi Lenz
Aggressive Tax Avoidance by Managers of Multinational Companies as a Violation of Their Moral Duty to Obey the Law: A Kantian Rationale
Journal of Business Ethics (2020) 165:681-697 · 19 Pages · Posted: 2 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 177
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8,347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
29,121
RANK
1,740
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies