Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
M&A and the Tax Benefits of Debt-Financing

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-019

50 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2014

Uwe Scheuering

German Council of Economic Experts

Date Written: March 15, 2014

Abstract

The deductibility of interest expenses from the corporate tax base creates an incentive for acquiring companies to finance a takeover with debt. In this paper, I investigate the impact of profit taxation on the financing decision in corporate acquisitions for the first time for a sample of different acquirer-countries mainly in Europe. The likelihood to observe a debt-financed acquisition is found to increase in the acquirer's tax rate. In addition, I take into account that the financing decisions of particular acquisitions might not be independent from other investment decisions. Therefore, I analyze the acquirer's capital structure development around the acquisition and find an increase in the statutory tax rate by one %-point to be associated with a stronger increase in the debt ratio by 0.55 %-points during the acquisition period.

Keywords: M&A, Business Taxation, Capital Structure, Empirical Analysis

JEL Classification: G34, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Scheuering, Uwe, M&A and the Tax Benefits of Debt-Financing (March 15, 2014). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2411937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2411937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E I Altman
Predicting nancial distress of companies: revisiting the Z-score and Zeta models Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation Taxes, Repatriation Strategies and Multinational Financial Policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud , B Lev , N G Travlos
Corporate Control and the Choice of Investment Financing: The Case of Corporate Acquisitions
Journal of Finance Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,527
RANK
175,068
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies