Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Taxing Is Tax Filing? Leaving Money on the Table Because of Hassle Costs

Posted: 23 Mar 2014 Last revised: 29 Sep 2017

Youssef Benzarti

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 28, 2015

Abstract

I use a quasi-experimental design and a novel identification strategy to estimate the burden of filing taxes. Employing a sample of US income tax returns, I observe the preferences of taxpayers when choosing between itemizing deductions and claiming the standard deduction. Taxpayers forego tax savings to avoid the hassle cost of itemizing, resulting in an average burden of itemizing of $644, with substantial heterogeneity. A revealed preference argument implies that itemizing deductions is as painful as working 19 hours. The burden of tax filing is larger for richer households, consistent with the fact that the value of time increases with income. I explore two explanations for the result. First, it could be due to an extreme aversion to filing taxes. Such aversion implies that itemizing deductions imposes aggregate hassles costs of 0.2% of GDP and back-of-the-envelope extrapolations to filing federal taxes yields an overall burden of 1.25% of GDP. Second, if taxpayers are time inconsistent they may forego large benefits even when hassle costs are relatively small due to procrastination. I provide evidence most consistent with taxpayers being present-biased. Both explanations – whether driven by preferences or mistakes – suggest that the tax filing burden is significantly larger than previously estimated. I discuss policy implications of the result.

Keywords: Behavioral, Preferences, Subsidies, Household Economics, Record Keeping

JEL Classification: D03, H24, H31, H83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Benzarti, Youssef, How Taxing Is Tax Filing? Leaving Money on the Table Because of Hassle Costs (September 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2412703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2412703
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,111
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies