Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The CCCTB Option – An Experimental Study

CEGE Discussion Paper No. 199

64 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2014

Claudia Keser

University of Göttingen

Gerrit Kimpel

University of Göttingen - Department of Finance, Accounting, and Taxes

Andreas Oestreicher

University of Göttingen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 26, 2014

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to look into the probability that, given the choice, corporate groups would opt for taxation on a consolidated basis. Consolidation would allow them to offset losses crossborder but remove the opportunity to exploit international tax-rate differentials between entities via transfer pricing. We present a laboratory experiment in which we investigate to what extent a corporation would be inclined to take up the consolidation option and how this would impact on the corporation’s location of investment and its transfer pricing activities involving locations outside the consolidated group. We use a 2-by-2 treatment design with two levels of tax-rate differential between two investment locations, and two different remuneration functions allowing the participants to act as owners or managers of a company.

Keywords: International Company Taxation; Separate Accounting; Formula Apportionment; Transfer Pricing; Experimental Economics

JEL Classification: C91, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Keser, Claudia and Kimpel, Gerrit and Oestreicher, Andreas, The CCCTB Option – An Experimental Study (March 26, 2014). CEGE Discussion Paper No. 199, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2416232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2416232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
H J Aaron
The Economics of taxation: The States Corporate Income Tax: Lab in Wolves
Clothing. Brookings Institution Posted: 1980
L H R Alvarez , V Kanniainen , J Södersten
Tax policy uncertainty and corporate investment: A theory of tax-induced investment spurts
J. Public Econ , volume 69 , issue 1 Posted: 1998
Crossref
L H R Alvarez , E Koskela
Progressive Taxation, Tax Exemption, and Irreversible Investment under Uncertainty
Journal of Public Econ.Theory , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 169 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Andreas , M Rapp , M Wolff
Determinants of director compensation in two-tier systems: evidence from German panel data
Rev. Manag. Sci , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 79 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,552
RANK
320,086
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies