Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Intellectual Capital

Florida Law Review, Vol. 66, p. 2229, 2014

Seattle University School of Law Research Paper No. 14-10

50 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2014 Last revised: 14 Dec 2014

Lily Kahng

Seattle University School of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2014

Abstract

Intellectual capital — broadly defined to include nonphysical sources of value such as patents and copyrights, computer software, organizational processes and know-how — has a long history of being undervalued and excluded from measures of economic productivity and wealth. In recent years, however, intellectual capital has finally gained wide recognition as a central driver of economic productivity and growth. Scholars in fields such as knowledge management, financial accounting and national accounting have produced a wealth of research that significantly advances our conceptual understanding of intellectual capital and introduces new methodologies for identifying and measuring its economic value.

This Article is the first to analyze and assess the taxation of intellectual capital within this broader interdisciplinary landscape. Informed by the recent research and reform efforts in knowledge management, financial accounting and national accounting, the Article finds that the tax law, which allows most investments in intellectual capital to be deducted, is fundamentally flawed. This results in the loss of hundreds of billions of dollars in tax revenues, costly misallocations of resources and a grave deviation from the accurate measure of income. The Article argues that, consistent with the prevailing view in other fields, investments in intellectual capital ought to be capitalized under the tax law. Drawing upon the work of reform proponents in other fields as well as their critics, the Article considers whether and to what extent the advances in other disciplines can be adapted to the tax system. Based on this analysis, it proposes the tax law be reformed to require businesses to capitalize and amortize over five years a broad array of intellectual capital investments including research and development, advertising, worker training and strategic planning.  

Keywords: tax, accounting, capitalization, intangibles, intellectual property, intellectual capital

JEL Classification: K34, M40, M41, O30, O31, O32, O47

Suggested Citation:

Kahng, Lily, The Taxation of Intellectual Capital (October 1, 2014). Florida Law Review, Vol. 66, p. 2229, 2014, Seattle University School of Law Research Paper No. 14-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Business See , Combinations
Statement of Fin. Accounting Standards No. 141, ¶ ¶ 5-8, at 9-10 (Fin. Accounting Standards Bd , volume 11 Posted: 2001
Benjamin P See Also , Foster
Valuing Intangible Assets
CPA J Posted: 2003-10-03
J Ronald , Huefner , A James , Iii Largay
The Effect of the New Goodwill Accounting Rules on Financial Statements
CPA J Posted: 2004-10-04
Jennifer M Mueller
Amortization of Certain Intangible Assets
J. ACCT Posted: 2004-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,951
RANK
104,096
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies