Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Theory of Reasoned Action and Audit Reminder Messages to Increase Tax Compliance: An Experimental Study Over Repeated Periods

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014

37 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2014

Mollie Adams

Bradley University

Date Written: March 31, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines, through the use of a laboratory experiment, the effects on tax compliance of two types of messages – one consisting of a simple reminder of audit risk and one designed based on the theory of reasoned action (TRA). It extends prior research by incorporating the TRA into persuasive tax compliance messages and by examining the effects of the messages over repeated periods. The results suggest some evidence that the messages have a positive impact across time. In addition, there is evidence that the TRA message increases the amount of income reported when an individual fails to comply fully.

Keywords: persuasive messages, tax compliance, theory of reasoned action, audit, accounting

JEL Classification: H24, H26, M4

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Mollie, Using the Theory of Reasoned Action and Audit Reminder Messages to Increase Tax Compliance: An Experimental Study Over Repeated Periods (March 31, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Jim Abrams
IRS Board: Tax Gap is Foremost Problem Posted: 2007-01-25
Icek Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Icek Ajzen , Martin Fishbein
Understanding Attitudes and Predicting Social Behavior Posted: 1980
James Alm , Michael Mckee
Audit Certainty, Audit Productivity, and Taxpayer Compliance
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 4 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,961
RANK
317,158
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies