Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Court Rulings in Estate Tax Cases: Is Gender a Factor?

The ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research

18 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2014 Last revised: 26 Aug 2014

Mark Jackson

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Sonja Pippin

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jeffrey Wong

University of Nevada, Reno

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

The U.S. court system plays an important role in resolving asset valuation disagreements between taxpayers and the taxing authority. A recent study examining the relation between court valuations of estates and case/judge attributes finds evidence suggesting that the number of appraisers used by the taxpayer, the type of asset being valued, and the age and complexity of the case are related to the decisions of the court. We extend this study by testing for the effect of judges’ gender. We find evidence that male judges tend to favor the taxpayer in valuation disputes.

Keywords: Estate tax, Valuation, Courts, Gender

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Mark and Pippin, Sonja and Wong, Jeffrey, Court Rulings in Estate Tax Cases: Is Gender a Factor? (March 1, 2014). The ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2418768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
M P Altieri , J E Apple , P Marquette , C K Moore
Political affiliation of appointing President and the outcome of Tax Court cases
Judicature , volume 84 , issue 6 , p. 310 - 313 Posted: 2001
P M Collins , K L Manning , R A Carp
Gender, Critical Mass, and Judicial Decision Making
Law & Policy , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 260 - 281 Posted: 2010
M Condon , J Engle , A Wichowsky
Reexamining the gender gap in ideology
Conference Paper, Midwestern Political Science Association, 2009 Annual Meeting Posted: 2009
T D Englebrecht
A reply, analysis, and extension of a closer statistical look at tax court compromise
Taxes , volume 57 , p. 607 - 614 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
RANK
454,090
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies