Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Havens and Disclosure Aggregation

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2419573

44 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2014 Last revised: 15 Mar 2017

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2017

Abstract

Multinational firms have been accused by politicians, regulators, and citizen groups of shifting profits to low-tax geographic areas. We present evidence that multinational firms with tax-haven operations tend to aggregate their geographic disclosures to a greater extent. The results are consistent with managers attempting to avoid criticism by reducing the transparency of their tax-avoidance activities. We find these results to be stronger for larger firms with higher political costs and for firms in natural-resources industries, in retail industries, or with low competition. The evidence is relevant to policy makers and others interested in multinational firms’ financial reporting and tax activities.

Keywords: Tax havens, aggregation, disclosure quality, tax avoidance, segment disclosure, Exhibit 21

JEL Classification: H25, H26, F23, F30, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Akamah, Herita T. and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Thomas, Wayne B., Tax Havens and Disclosure Aggregation (March 15, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2419573, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3872 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Proposed International Accounting Standard. Reporting Turnover and Tax by Location Posted: 2003
C R Austin , R J Wilson
Are reputational costs a determinant of tax aggressiveness? Working paper Posted: 2013
Karthik Balakrishnan , Jennifer Blouin , Wayne R. Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
Pages: 67 Posted: 27 Mar 2011 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,083
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,964
RANK
36,388
9 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies