Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customers’ Relationship-Specific Investments and Corporate Tax Avoidance

58 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2014

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

Min Zhang

Renmin University of China

Date Written: March 2, 2014

Abstract

We investigate whether corporate tax avoidance is affected by a firm’s relationship with its customers. We find a positive association between a firm’s tax avoidance and its customers’ relationship-specific investments, demonstrating that customers value the cash flow benefits generated by a firm’s tax savings. The absence of such a link in firms with weak corporate governance is consistent with the agency perspective of tax avoidance. Further analyses show that such an association is more pronounced when a firm has less bargaining power and when certain complementary mechanism is in place. We conclude that customer relationship is an important factor that determines a firm’s tax avoidance incentives.

Keywords: Relationship-specific investments, customers, tax avoidance, agency theory

JEL Classification: H25, H26, G30, L14, L24

Suggested Citation:

Li, Oliver Zhen and Ni, Chenkai and Zhang, Min, Customers’ Relationship-Specific Investments and Corporate Tax Avoidance (March 2, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Brad A. Badertscher , Sharon P. Katz , Sonja O. Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 13-64 Posted: 6 Feb 2009 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shantanu Banerjee , Shantanu Banerjee , Sudipto Dasgupta , Yungsan Kim
Buyer-Supplier Relationships and Trade Credit
HKUST Working Paper Pages: 49 Posted: 16 Sep 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,451
RANK
227,633
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies