Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Income Tax Related Deficiencies in Publicly Disclosed PCAOB Part II Reports Influence Audit Client Financial Reporting of Income Tax Accounts?

The Accounting Review, Vol. 91, No. 5, September 2016

Posted: 11 Apr 2014 Last revised: 7 Apr 2017

Katharine D. Drake

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 30, 2015

Abstract

Deloitte’s 2007 PCAOB Part II report identifies, among other issues, concerns related to the audit firm’s quality controls with respect to auditing income tax accounts. We investigate whether Deloitte’s actions to remediate the PCAOB’s concerns are associated with changes to their clients’ financial reporting for income taxes. We find that Deloitte’s clients increased the reported valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and increased the reported reserve for uncertain tax benefits (UTBs) in response to increased auditor scrutiny over income tax accounts. Additionally, we find that in subsequent periods, Deloitte’s clients report valuation allowances and UTB balances that are not significantly different than other annually inspected auditors, consistent with Deloitte changing the quality controls related to audits of income tax accounts after the failed remediation of the 2007 Part II report.

Keywords: PCAOB Inspections, Auditor scrutiny, Valuation allowances, Uncertain tax benefits, Earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Katharine D. and Goldman, Nathan C. and Lusch, Stephen J., Do Income Tax Related Deficiencies in Publicly Disclosed PCAOB Part II Reports Influence Audit Client Financial Reporting of Income Tax Accounts? (October 30, 2015). The Accounting Review, Vol. 91, No. 5, September 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2423458
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,455
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies