Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Investors’ Dividend Tax and Corporate Payout Policies – Evidence from a Reform that Ties the Dividend Tax Rate to Share Holding Period

43 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2014

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Hang Liu

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics

Chenkai Ni

Department of Accounting, School of Management, Fudan University; Fudan University

Kangtao Ye

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: April 11, 2014

Abstract

The 2012 Dividend Tax Reform in China uniquely ties individual investors’ dividend tax rates to the length of their share holding period. We find that firms facing a reduction in their individual investors’ dividend tax rate are more likely to increase dividend payout, initiate dividends, and are less likely to omit dividends, compared with firms facing an increase in their individual investors’ dividend tax rate. Such an effect is concentrated in firms with a low level of agency cost. In addition, investors respond to this tax law change by reducing trading activities before the cum-dividend day to avoid entering into a higher dividend tax bracket. Further, stock return patterns on the ex-dividend day suggest that reduced trading activities lower the marginal investor’s dividend tax penalty. Overall, our evidence enhances the notion that individual investors’ tax profiles shape firms’ payout policies.

Keywords: individual investor, dividend tax, payout policy, agency cost

JEL Classification: G30, G35, H20

Suggested Citation:

Li, Oliver Zhen and Liu, Hang and Ni, Chenkai and Ye, Kangtao, Individual Investors’ Dividend Tax and Corporate Payout Policies – Evidence from a Reform that Ties the Dividend Tax Rate to Share Holding Period (April 11, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2424666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2424666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M Bertrand , E Duflo , S Mullainathan
How much should we trust differences-in-differences estimates?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J L Blouin , J S Raedy , D A Shackelford
Dividends, share repurchases, and tax clienteles: Evidence from the 2003 reductions in shareholder taxes
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 887 - 914 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Brav , J R Graham , C R Harvey , R Michaely
Managerial response to the May 2003 dividend tax cut
Financial Management , volume 37 , p. 611 - 624 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J R Brown , N Liang , S Weisbenner
Executive financial incentives and payout policy: Firm responses to the 2003 dividend tax cut
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 1935 - 1965 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,358
RANK
108,060
5 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies