Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethics and Tax Evasion: A Survey of South African Opinion

21 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2014

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Geoff Goldman

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: April 14, 2014

Abstract

Most studies of tax evasion take an economic or public finance perspective. Not much has been written from a philosophical or ethical viewpoint. That is probably because most economists are utilitarians and most lawyers are legalists. However, there is a small body of literature that addresses tax evasion issues from a philosophical or theological perspective. The present study is intended to add to that small body of literature while forming a bridge to the public finance literature as well.

The authors developed a survey instrument that included eighteen (18) statements incorporating the three major views on the ethics of tax evasion that have emerged in the literature over the last 500 years. Each statement began “Tax evasion is ethical if ….” The remainder of each statement included one of the 18 justifications for tax evasion that have been given in the theological and philosophical literature over the last five centuries.

The purpose of the survey was to determine the relative strength or weakness of each of the historical arguments as well as to determine whether opinions differed by demographics. The survey was distributed to groups of management, economics and finance students at a South African university. This paper reports on the results of that survey.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, South Africa, empirical studies, gender, age, ethnicity, religion, academic status

JEL Classification: H24, H26, D63, M4, K14, K34, J1, J12, J14, J16, Z14

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Goldman, Geoff, Ethics and Tax Evasion: A Survey of South African Opinion (April 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2424888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2424888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
James Alm , Benno Torgler
Culture Differences and Tax Morale in the United States
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Mary Armstrong , Jack Beth , Robison
Ethics in Taxation
The Ethics of Tax Evasion , volume 1 , p. 330 - 348 Posted: 1998
Apostolos A Ballas , Haridimos Tsoukas
Consequences of Distrust: The Vicious Circle of Tax Evasion in Greece
Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 284 - 304 Posted: 1998
Walter Block
The Justification of Taxation in the Public Finance Literature: A Critique
Journal of Public Finance and Public Choice , volume 3 , p. 141 - 158 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,442
RANK
383,022
11 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Jewish Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Christian Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Three Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies