Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Burden of Attention: The Impact of CEO Publicity on Tax Avoidance

42 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2014

Rong Ding

NEOMA Business School

Tinghua Duan

EDHEC Business School

Wenxuan Hou

University of Edinburgh - Business School

John Ziyang Zhang

University of Liverpool

Date Written: April 17, 2014

Abstract

We use Google search volume index for a CEO’s name and stock ticker to measure CEO publicity, and examine the competing hypotheses on its effect on the tax behavior: On the one hand, CEOs who receive higher attention from the retail investors are motivated to engage in tax avoidance activities to inflate earning to meet investors’ performance expectation; on the other hand, they concern more about public image and therefore avoid to be labeled as tax avoiders. Based on the analysis of the CEOs of S&P500 firms between 2004 and 2011, the finding supports the former and shows that the CEOs with higher publicity manage to enjoy lower effective tax rate and cash effective tax rate. In addition, such effect is moderated by board independence. Finally, we find that firms with higher CEO publicity pay auditors more tax fees, suggesting that these CEOs tend to purchase more tax planning service from external auditors. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of tax avoidance, and have important implications on both tax authority and investors.

Keywords: CEO publicity; Google search; tax avoidance; CEO

JEL Classification: K3, L5, H3, H30

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Rong and Duan, Tinghua and Hou, Wenxuan and Zhang, John, The Burden of Attention: The Impact of CEO Publicity on Tax Avoidance (April 17, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2426413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
Incentive for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Bradley S. Blaylock
Do Managers Extract Economically Significant Rents Through Tax Aggressive Transactions?
Pages: 54 Posted: 17 Aug 2011 Last revised: 1 Sep 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J L Brown , K Drake
Network ties among low-tax firms. The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2013
S Chen , Q Chen , Cheng Shevlin , T
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 51 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,995
RANK
200,911
3 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies