Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Longitudinal Study of Possible Links between Tax Imputation and Dividend Reinvestment Plans: Australian Evidence

31 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2014

Mathew Abraham

Notre Dame University, Sydney Campus

Date Written: April 29, 2014

Abstract

This study focuses on the relationship between dividend payout ratio and DRP (Dividend Reinvestment Plan) adoption within the framework of the Australian dividend tax imputation system. Since the decision to adopt the DRP (Dividend Reinvestment Plan) is effected through the distribution of dividends, a longitudinal study of dividend payout ratios and DRP adoptions over time during the sample period (1995-2009), places the DRP decision in the right perspective. We also look at the DRP effect on certain firm characteristics over time using cross-sectional longitudinal data.

The study addresses the binary longitudinal data analysis, using the trend and GEE (General Estimating Equation) approaches, to examine the DRP effect on dividend payout ratio and other firm characteristics. The results of both the trend analysis and GEE approach indicate that DRP decisions are prompted by high dividend payout ratio, low profitability and low liquidity over time. The highly significant time coefficient in GEE estimates shows the longitudinal effect on the DRP decision.

Keywords: Dividend policy: Imputation; Franking credits: Taxes; Tax credit rebate

JEL Classification: G35; H25

Suggested Citation:

Abraham, Mathew Puravady, A Longitudinal Study of Possible Links between Tax Imputation and Dividend Reinvestment Plans: Australian Evidence (April 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2430555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2430555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Amidu , J Abor
Determinants of dividend pay-out ratios in Ghana
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 7 , p. 136 - 145 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Bellamy
Evidence of imputation clienteles in Australian equity markets
Asia Pacific Journal of Management , volume 2 , p. 275 - 287 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Brown , A Clarke
The ex-dividend behaviour of Australian share prices before and after dividend imputation
Australian Journal of Management , volume 18 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R Brown , P Howard
Dividend policy and the capital structure under the imputation tax system: some clarifying comments. Accounting and Finance , volume 32 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,568
RANK
623,124
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies