Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective VAT Rates and Administrative Discretion in China

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4746

30 Pages Posted: 9 May 2014

Weixian Cai

Xiamen University

John Whalley

University of Western Ontario - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Centre for International Governance and Innovation (CIGI)

Date Written: April 8, 2014

Abstract

This paper highlights the difference between statutory and effective tax rates in the value added tax in China, and explores the role of administrative discretion in generating this difference. In China, unlike in Europe where the VAT originated, there can be significant differences between effective and statutory rates because of features of tax administration. The tax is collected at local level, but tax administrators have a centrally directed revenue plan to meet. They in turn have a range of elements of individual discretion in their tax collecting activities as they both administer the tax and meet their plan. We discuss what the elements of administrative discretion in China’s VAT are, and access a firm level data set from the National Bureau of Statistics to explore the implications of administrative discretion in oversight of the tax. In this dataset, VAT payable at firm level is reported and the data point to effective tax rates that can on average be close to double the statutory rate. These rates, however, vary by type of enterprise, by time, by region and other characteristics.

Keywords: effective VAT rate, administrative discretion

JEL Classification: H200

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Weixian and Whalley, John, Effective VAT Rates and Administrative Discretion in China (April 8, 2014). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4746, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2434463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Note: WETR is weighted effective VAT rate, ADR is administrative discretion rate
There are few enterprises in the sample in the energy and mining industries
Jaebin Ahn , Amit Khandelwal , Shang-Jin Wei
The Role of Intermediaries in Facilitating Trade
Journal of International Economics , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 85 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Loren Brandt , Johannes Van Biesebroeck , Yifan Zhang
Creative Accounting or Creative Destruction? Firm-Level Productivity Growth in Chinese Manufacturing
Journal of Development Economics , volume 97 , p. 339 - 331 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Gene H. Chang , Ye Chen , Kathryn J. Chang
Effective VAT Rates, Tax Efficiency and Burden: Are Some Industries over-Taxed in China?
The Chinese Economy , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Longjin Chen
Tax enforcement interactions among Chinese provinces: A frontier and spatial analysis
Growth and Change , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 332 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,704
RANK
333,158
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies