Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biased Effects of Taxes and Subsidies on Portfolio Choices

Economics Letters, Vol. 120, 2013

Posted: 14 May 2014

Hagen Ackermann

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Benedikt Mihm

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg

Date Written: March 12, 2013

Abstract

We study how taxes and subsidies affect portfolio choices in a laboratory experiment. We find highly significant differences after intervention, even though the net income is identical in all our treatments and thus the decision pattern of investors should be constant. In particular, we observe that the willingness to invest in the risky asset decreases markedly when an income tax has to be paid or when a subsidy is paid. We investigate this result further in a range of variations of the baseline experiment and find our main result to be largely robust. However, as we reduce the number of states of nature the bias weakens considerably.

Keywords: Tax perception, Risk-taking behavior, Portfolio choice, Distorting taxation, Behavioral economics

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Hagen and Fochmann, Martin and Mihm, Benedikt, Biased Effects of Taxes and Subsidies on Portfolio Choices (March 12, 2013). Economics Letters, Vol. 120, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2435940
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies