Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Tax Effects and Tax Perception Effects in Decisions on Asset Allocation

50 Pages Posted: 14 May 2014

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Kristina Hemmerich

University of Würzburg

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 10, 2014

Abstract

We test the predictions of the theoretical literature initiated by the study of Domar and Musgrave (1944) with a laboratory experiment in which subjects have to decide on the composition of an asset portfolio. Our simple design enables us to distinguish between Real Tax Effects and Perception Effects when a proportional income tax, with and without a full loss offset provision, is introduced. Observed investment behavior is partially inconsistent with the theoretical predictions if we do not control for the Perception Effects. However, if we consider these effects, we find support for the theory. The isolated Perception Effects can explain the unexpected behavior observed in previous studies and has both scientific and political implications.

Keywords: Taxation, Domar-Musgrave Effect, Tax Perception, Risk Taking Behavior, Portfolio Choice, Behavioral Taxation

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Hemmerich, Kristina, Real Tax Effects and Tax Perception Effects in Decisions on Asset Allocation (April 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2435935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2435935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
H Ackermann , M Fochmann , B Mihm
Biased effects of taxes and subsidies on portfolio choices
Economics Letters , volume 120 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S M Ahsan
Progression and Risk-Taking
Oxford Economic Papers , volume 26 , p. 318 - 328 Posted: 1974
Crossref
M G Allingham
Risk-Taking and Taxation
Zeitschrift für Nationalökonomie , volume 32 , p. 203 - 224 Posted: 1972
Crossref
S E Anderson , J B Butler
Experimental Evidence on the Effects of Tax Incentives on Risky Security Prices
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 19 , p. 58 - 76 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
330,157
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies