Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Tax Salience and Tax Experience on Individual Work Efforts in a Framed Field Experiment

FinanzArchiv/Public Finance Analysis, 2014, Vol. 69, No. 4, 511-542

Posted: 14 May 2014

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Joachim Weimann

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg - Institute of Economics and Business Administration; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

We present a simple model with tax biases that shows that tax perception depends on (1) the tax rate, (2) tax salience, and (3) tax experience. To test our model predictions, we first draw on the results of Fochmann et al. (2013) and show that tax misperceptions are lower with a higher tax rate. Second, we conduct a framed field experiment with 118 employees (no students) as subjects and a tax levied on the subjects’ income from working in a real-effort experiment. In four treatments employing a direct and an indirect progressive tax scale, we show that a higher tax salience and tax experience level lead to lower tax misperception. Interestingly, the tax-experience effect does not play a role in simple cases with a proportional income tax.

Keywords: tax perception, tax salience, tax experience, real-effort experiment, behavioral public economics

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Weimann, Joachim, The Effects of Tax Salience and Tax Experience on Individual Work Efforts in a Framed Field Experiment (May 12, 2014). FinanzArchiv/Public Finance Analysis, 2014, Vol. 69, No. 4, 511-542, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2435957
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies