Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Biased Effect of Aggregated and Disaggregated Income Taxation on Investment Decisions

Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics, Vol. 168, Issue 3, 519-546

Posted: 14 May 2014

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Dirk Kiesewetter

University of Würzburg

Abdolkarim Sadrieh

University of Magdeburg

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

In a laboratory experiment that allows us to vary the taxation method while keeping the financial outcomes constant, we find clear evidence that aggregated income taxation (comparable to profit taxation) with complete loss deduction induces a sustained bias towards more risky investment decisions, while disaggregated income taxation (comparable to a transaction taxation with loss offset) does not. We suggest that this bias may be exploited to increase the volume of private investments by choosing aggregated income taxation if investors are (too) risk-averse, and to decrease the volume and the risk by choosing disaggregated income taxation if investors are (too) risk-seeking.

Keywords: tax perception, risk-taking behavior, distorting taxation

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Kiesewetter, Dirk and Sadrieh, Abdolkarim, The Biased Effect of Aggregated and Disaggregated Income Taxation on Investment Decisions (May 12, 2014). Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics, Vol. 168, Issue 3, 519-546, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2435948
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies