Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Scrutiny and Tax Law Compliance: Evidence from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

Journal of American Taxation Association 2014, Vol. 36, No. 2, 1-26

45 Pages Posted: 15 May 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2015

Jian Cao

Florida Atlantic University

Yunhao Chen

Florida International University

Roy Clemons

New Mexico State University

Michael Kinney

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) created a tax holiday encouraging firms to repatriate foreign earnings and invest that capital in the United States. However, the Act did not require a direct tracing of the spending of repatriated funds; accordingly, repatriating firms could ignore the investment prescriptions of the Act since tax regulators were provided no legally viable basis to pursue violations of the spending requirements. We use this event to provide evidence on the effect of political scrutiny on firms’ tax law compliance in a setting where regulatory enforcement plays essentially no role. Our findings suggest that repatriating firms facing greater levels of policymaker scrutiny, relative to other repatriating firms, exhibited greater compliance with the Act by increasing relative expenditures on permitted uses (R&D investment) and restraining expenditures on non-permitted uses. We also find that the spending patterns are different only for the group of high-scrutiny firms (i.e., there is a threshold effect). Our estimates imply that the repatriation tax holiday induced, among such high-scrutiny firms alone, $0.41 of additional R&D spending per revenue dollar forgone by the Treasury under the Act. The evidence is generally consistent with the political cost hypothesis.

Keywords: American Jobs Creation Act; political costs; R&D investment; repatriations; share repurchases

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Jian and Chen, Yunhao and Clemons, Roy and Kinney, Michael R., Political Scrutiny and Tax Law Compliance: Evidence from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Journal of American Taxation Association 2014, Vol. 36, No. 2, 1-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2436934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
P Aghion , P Howitt
A model of growth through creative destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 351 Posted: 1992
Crossref
-- , P Howitt
Endogenous Growth Theory Posted: 1998
S Albring , A Dzuranin , L Mills
Tax savings on repatriations of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Tax Notes , volume 108 , issue 7 , p. 655 - 669 Posted: 2004
-- , L Mills , K Newberry
Do debt constraints influence firms' sensitivity to a temporary tax holiday on repatriations
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Load more
1 Citations
T. J. Atwood , Jimmy Downes , Jodi Henley , Mollie Mathis
The Impact of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. Firm Acquisitions of Domestic and Foreign Targets
50 Pages · Posted: 12 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 618
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
588,428
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies