Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity and Capital Structure

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 16 May 2014 Last revised: 23 Dec 2016

Bradley S. Blaylock

University of Oklahoma - Michael F. Price College of Business

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: June 29, 2016

Abstract

We examine the effect of increased book-tax conformity on corporate capital structure. Prior studies document a decrease in the informativeness of accounting earnings for equity markets resulting from higher book-tax conformity. We argue that the decrease in earnings informativeness impacts equity holders more than debt holders because of the differences in payoff structures between debt and equity investments such that increases in book-tax conformity lead to increases in firms’ reliance on debt capital. We exploit a natural experiment in the U.S. and find that firms facing an increase in required book-tax conformity increase leverage relative to other firms. We also provide evidence of an increase in the cost of equity (but not of debt) capital for firms facing an increase in required book-tax conformity relative to control firms and that these increases in cost of equity capital are positively associated with an increase in leverage. Our findings are consistent with firms substituting away from equity and towards more debt in the presence of higher book-tax conformity.

Keywords: Book-tax conformity, leverage, capital structure

JEL Classification: H20, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Blaylock, Bradley S. and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Book-Tax Conformity and Capital Structure (June 29, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2437196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2437196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T Atwood , M Drake , L Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,581
RANK
99,567
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies