Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Litigation of Tax Benefit Preservation Plans

Managerial Finance, Vol. 43, 2017

36 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015 Last revised: 25 Mar 2017

Thomas J. Boulton

Miami University

Terry Nixon

Miami University of Ohio

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

We study the shareholder wealth effects of the adoption and subsequent litigation confirming the validity of shareholder right plans that are enacted to protect a firm’s net operating loss carryforwards (tax benefit preservation plans). We find that abnormal returns are negative at the announcement of a new tax benefit preservation plan. However, the full impact of plan adoption on share prices is not evident until the Delaware Courts validated their use. The Delaware Court rulings in the case of Selectica, Inc. v. Versata Enterprises, Inc. and Trilogy, Inc. are associated with additional negative wealth effects for both prior plan adopters and the firms most likely to consider adopting a plan. These results suggest that entrenchment concerns tend to outweigh the protection of net operating loss carryforwards when firms adopt tax benefit preservation plans.

Keywords: Delaware Courts, Net operating losses, Poison pill, Section 382, Shareholder rights plan

JEL Classification: G38, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Boulton, Thomas J. and Nixon, Terry David, The Litigation of Tax Benefit Preservation Plans (February 1, 2016). Managerial Finance, Vol. 43, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2438003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2438003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
B Ambrose , &amp; W Megginson
The Role of Asset Structure, Ownership Structure, and Takeover Defenses in Determining Acquisition Likelihood
27 J. of Financial & Quantitative Analysis Posted: 1992
Crossref
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , &amp; K Willard
The Valuation of Deferred Taxes Posted: 1997
Crossref
E Amir , &amp; T Sougiannis
Analysts' Interpretation and Investors' Valuation of Tax Carryforwards
16 Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 1 Posted: 1999
Crossref
F Aquila
Suddenly, Poison Pills are Relevant Again
BloombergBusinessweek Posted: 2011-02-23
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,516
RANK
192,204
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies