Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intergenerational Altruism and House Prices: Evidence from Bequest Tax Reforms in Italy

Quaderni - Working Paper DSE N° 947

22 Pages Posted: 24 May 2014

Giorgio Bellettini

University of Bologna - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Filippo Taddei

School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) - The Johns Hopkins University

Giulio Zanella

University of Bologna

Date Written: May 21, 2014

Abstract

We identify the degree of intergenerational altruism in an OLG framework à la Barro exploiting the quasi-experimental variation generated by reforms of bequest taxation (estate or inheritance tax, in the U.S.) and taxes on inter vivos real estate donations (gift tax, in the U.S.) that were enacted in Italy between 2000 and 2001. Employing a unique data set containing information on the housing stock and house prices in 13 large Italian cities between 1993 and 2004, we identify the structural parameter of interest via the effect of changes in the tax rate on house prices. We find that the intergenerational altruism parameter is about 20%. Given the possible anticipation of the reform this estimate should be interpreted as a lower bound.

Keywords: altruism, bequests, inheritance tax, gift tax, house prices

JEL Classification: E60, E65, H24

Suggested Citation:

Bellettini, Giorgio and Taddei, Filippo and Zanella, Giulio, Intergenerational Altruism and House Prices: Evidence from Bequest Tax Reforms in Italy (May 21, 2014). Quaderni - Working Paper DSE N° 947, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2440724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2440724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
D Barczyk
Deficits, Gifts, and Bequests: Ricardian Equivalence Revisited Posted: 2012
R Barro
Are Government Bonds Net Wealth
Journal of Political Economy , p. 1095 - 1117 Posted: 1974
Crossref
G Bellettini , F Taddei , G Zanella
Bequest taxes, donations, and house prices
BE Journal of Macroeconomics , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 355 - 379 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Luigi Cannari , Giovanni D'Alessio
Intergenerational Transfers in Italy
Bank of Italy Research Paper No. A9 Pages: 33 Posted: 28 Jul 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,654
RANK
708,404
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Preference Heterogeneity and Optimal Capital Income Taxation

By Mikhail Golosov, Maxim Troshkin, ...

Dynamic Optimal Taxation with Private Information

By Stefania Albanesi and Christopher M. Sleet

Optimal Taxation of Entrepreneurial Capital with Private Information

By Stefania Albanesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies