Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Repatriation Tax Costs on U.S. Multinational Investment

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 26 May 2014 Last revised: 9 Jun 2014

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: May 23, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the U.S. repatriation tax for U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) affects foreign investment. Prior research shows that repatriation tax costs are positively associated with cash overseas, but the use of such cash is not well understood. Our results show that the locked-out cash due to repatriation tax costs is associated with a higher likelihood of foreign (but not domestic) acquisitions. We also find that the market reaction to an announcement of foreign acquisitions is more negative for firms with more locked-out cash. These results highlight an unintended consequence of U.S. tax policy on worldwide investment activity.

Keywords: Cash, Investment, Tax

JEL Classification: M40, G34, H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Lester, Rebecca and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Effect of Repatriation Tax Costs on U.S. Multinational Investment (May 23, 2014). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2441529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
T Bates , K Kahle , R Stulz
Why do U.S. firms hold so much more cash than they used to
Journal of Finance , volume 64 Posted: 1985
Crossref
K Bilir
Patent laws, product lifecycle lengths, and multinational activity
American Economic Review Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Blouin , L Krull
Bringing it home: a study of the incentives surrounding the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1027 - 59 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Blouin , L Krull , L Robinson
Is U.S. multinational dividend repatriation policy influenced by reporting incentives?
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1463 - 1491 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
999
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,656
RANK
52,434
51 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business

By James R. Hines Jr. and Eric M. Rice

Tax Policy and Foreign Direct Investment

By David G. Hartman

Altered States: Taxes and the Location of Foreign Direct Investment in America

By James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies