Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Tax Compliance Costs of Large Companies in Indonesia are Low Compared to Other Countries: Empirical Evidence

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014

24 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2014

Jeff Pope

Curtin University - Centre for Research in Applied Economics

Budi Susila

Curtin University

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

This article argues that the magnitude of tax compliance costs in one country compared with those in other countries does not necessarily reflect the relative complexity of the tax system. Specifically, the low compliance costs for large corporate taxpayers in Indonesia compared with those in both developed and developing countries do not imply that the tax system in Indonesia is less complex than that in those countries. Rather, it is the relative size of the companies and the low wage rates in Indonesia that influence the tax compliance costs more than the complexity of the tax system itself. The difficulties in making international comparisons of tax systems are fully recognised.

Keywords: Indonesia, tax compliance costs, large companies, international comparison

Suggested Citation:

Pope, Jeff and Susila, Budi, Why the Tax Compliance Costs of Large Companies in Indonesia are Low Compared to Other Countries: Empirical Evidence (December 2, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2445297
Purchase - $45
11 References
Is your organisation ready to list?
Source Posted: 2013-04-15
J Pope
Crossref
A Loh
Crossref
M Ariff , A Loh , A Talib
Compliance Costs of Corporate Income Taxation in Singapore
Taxation & Compliance Costs in Asia Pacific Economies Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,989
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies