Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Corporate Income Tax Compliance Costs Under the Malaysian Self-Assessment System

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014

40 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2014

Noor Sharoja Sapiei

University of Malaya (UM)

Jeyapalan Kasipillai

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 27, 2013

Abstract

This paper presents the findings of the first study carried out in 2010 on the compliance costs of Malaysian corporate taxpayers under the self-assessment system (SAS) environment. We used a self-administered survey method on 473 large companies and received 98 usable responses, which represented a response rate of 20.7%. The mean compliance costs estimate of a company for the year of assessment 2009 is MYR47,126 (AUD15,340), accounting for approximately 1% of sales turnover. The mean estimate from this study is 31.5% lower when compared to the findings of a similar Malaysian pre-SAS study. The components of compliance costs are segregated into internal and external costs (37% and 63%, respectively), and computational and planning costs (74% and 26%, respectively). The aggregated total compliance costs are almost MYR32 million, representing 0.11% of corporate tax revenue and 0.01% of Malaysian gross domestic product (GDP). The magnitude of the corporate income tax (CIT) compliance costs estimate is low compared to similar estimates in other advanced and emerging economies, partly portraying a lower level of complexity in the Malaysian tax system. The costs of seeking tax incentive and psychological costs comprise approximately 7% and 18%, respectively, of the mean tax compliance costs incurred by large corporations. The normal regressivity of tax compliance costs, in relation to company size, is evident and corroborates the findings of existing studies on the unfair compliance costs burden imposed on smaller corporations. This study provides useful information to tax authorities and others concerned with establishing guidelines and tax policy pertaining to the compliance costs burden of taxpayers.

Keywords: Tax Compliance Costs, Corporate Taxpayers, Self-Assessment System

Suggested Citation:

Sapiei, Noor Sharoja and Kasipillai, Jeyapalan, Evaluation of Corporate Income Tax Compliance Costs Under the Malaysian Self-Assessment System (September 27, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2445280
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies