Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Preparation Expenses for Employees: Evidence from Germany

arqus Discussion Paper No. 157

42 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2014

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Frank Hechtner

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Axel Möhlmann

Deutsche Bundesbank

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2014

Abstract

Tax preparation firms advertise their services as a way to save taxes. To investigate this subject, we use a panel of German income tax accounting data, consisting of employees and other taxpayers with non-business income, to explore the relationship between expenses for tax preparation and tax liabilities. We find a negative link with expenses exceeding estimated tax savings. Specifically, one additional Euro yields an estimated tax savings of 72 cents in an OLS regression and 24 cents in a fixed-effects regression. This finding indicates that cross-section estimates are upward biased. The magnitude of the effect implies that tax preparation expenses are not worthwhile from a tax saving perspective alone. In consideration of time savings, combined tax and time savings also do not exceed expenses for any income quintile. The result is robust to various alternative specifications such that in no setting do the pecuniary and time savings exceed the tax preparation expenses. Overall, our findings suggest an important benefit of tax preparation expenses beyond tax and time savings.

Keywords: response to taxation, tax advisors, tax return preparation, tax preparation expenses

JEL Classification: H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Hechtner, Frank and Möhlmann, Axel, The Effect of Tax Preparation Expenses for Employees: Evidence from Germany (January 1, 2014). arqus Discussion Paper No. 157, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Terry Ashley , Mark A Segal
Paid Tax Preparer Determinants Extended and Reexamined
Public Finance Review , volume 25 , p. 267 - 284 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Paul J Beck , Jon S Davis , Woon-Oh Jung
Tax Advice and Reporting under Uncertainty: Theory and Experimental Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 49 - 80 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Kay Blaufus , Sebastian Eichfelder , Jochen Hundsdoerfer
Income Tax Compliance Costs of Working Individuals: Empirical Evidence from Germany
Public Finance Review, forthcoming Posted: 2013
Marsha Blumenthal , Brian Erard , Chih-Chin Ho
Participation and Compliance with The Earned Income Tax Credit
National Tax Journal , volume 58 , p. 189 - 213 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Perabavathi Sinnasamy , Zainol Bidin , Syed Soffian Syed Ismail
A Proposed Model of Non-compliance Behaviour on Excise Duty: A Moderating Effects of Tax Agents
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 211 , p. 299 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Lisa Frey
Tax certified individual auditors and effective tax rates
Business Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 77 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Kay Blaufus , Frank Hechtner , Michael Milde
How Does Improved Tax Administration Service Quality Affect Taxpayer Behavior?
42 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 6 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 240
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
231,675
3 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies