Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Privacy on Tax Compliance – An Experimental Investigation

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2014 Last revised: 6 Nov 2016

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Jonathan Bob

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Philipp E. Otto

European University Viadrina

Nadja Wolf

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: November 4, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we use a tax compliance game with a public good to investigate the impact of public disclosure on tax evasion behavior experimentally. Three different types of tax privacy are tested, ranging from complete privacy to full disclosure. We expect two different effects: first, a contagion effect, arising when an individual observes non-compliance of other individuals and therefore reduces her own tax compliance; second, a shame effect of increased tax compliance due to the anticipated shame of being declared a tax evader. Both these effects are supported by the experimental results. However, the shame effect reduces tax evasion only in the short run. The influence of shame diminishes over the course of the experiment with subjects observing the non-compliance of other participants. Thus, our results indicate that when the contagion and the shame effect are present the latter is not strong enough to override the former in the long run. Furthermore, disclosing tax information anonymously increases tax evasion compared to providing no information on tax evasion behavior. These observations are of particular importance for tax policy because public disclosure may lead to more evasion instead of less when supporting a crowding-out of the tax morale.

Keywords: Public tax disclosure, Tax compliance, Tax evasion, Tax publicity

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Bob, Jonathan and Otto, Philipp E. and Wolf, Nadja, The Effect of Tax Privacy on Tax Compliance – An Experimental Investigation (November 4, 2016). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
A perspective on the experimental analysis of taxpayer reporting
The Accounting Review , p. 577 - 593 Posted: 1991
J Alm
Testing behavioral public economics theories in the laboratory
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , p. 635 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
M. Mustafa Erdoğdu , Binhan E. Yılmaz , Murat Aydın , İnci User
Handbook of Research on Public Finance in Europe and the MENA Region
, p. 268 Posted: 2016
Crossref
James Alm , Michele Bernasconi , Susan Laury , Daniel Lee , Sally Wallace
Culture, Compliance, and Confidentiality: Taxpayer Behavior in the United States and Italy
University Ca' Foscari of Venice, Dept. of Economics Research Paper Series No. 36 · 38 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 179
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chris Leech
Detect and Deter or Catch and Release: Are Financial Penalties an Effective Way to Penalise Deliberate Tax Evaders?
Tax and Transfer Policy Institute Working Paper 6/2018 · 117 Pages · Posted: 24 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nadja Dwenger , Lukas Treber
Shaming for Tax Enforcement: Evidence from a New Policy
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP13194 · 55 Pages · Posted: 24 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 16 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 14
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,243
RANK
223,632
7 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies