Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Affective Reactions Influence Investment Decisions: Evidence from a Laboratory Experiment With Taxation

arqus Discussion Paper No. 160

28 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2014

Katharina Schüssler

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Munich Graduate School of Economics (MGSE)

Johannes Hewig

University of Würzburg

Dirk Kiesewetter

University of Würzburg

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 15, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the effect of taxation on gains and losses on the investment behavior of investors. Based on the insights of both economic research on the influence of taxation on investment behavior and psychological concepts dealing with the descriptive decision behavior of investors we expect investors to react to taxation of investment alternatives they face with behavioral and affective changes. By conducting a laboratory experiment with a total of 72 participants based on the experimental design of Fochmann, Kiesewetter, and Sadrieh (2012) that allows to quantify the reactions of investors to taxation on gains and loss deduction independent of their individual risk preferences and additionally measuring the affective reactions of our participants, we explore the role of affect in the relation of taxation and decision making. Hence, we are able to show that affective reactions to the taxation situations, in particular the perceived valence of these situations, influence the change in behavior of investors when confronted with taxation on gains and limited loss deduction.

Keywords: decision making; risk taking behavior; behavioral taxation; distorting taxation; affect; valence

JEL Classification: C91; D14; H24

Suggested Citation:

Schüssler, Katharina and Hewig, Johannes and Kiesewetter, Dirk and Fochmann, Martin, Affective Reactions Influence Investment Decisions: Evidence from a Laboratory Experiment With Taxation (April 15, 2014). arqus Discussion Paper No. 160, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Bechara , A Damasio
The Somatic Marker Hypothesis: A Neural Theory of Economic Decision
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 336 - 372 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Borkenau , F Ostendorf
NEO-Fünf-Faktoren-Inventar nach Costa und McCrae: Manual Posted: 2008
G Clore
Cognitive Phenomenology: Feelings and the Construction of Judgment
The construction of social judgments , volume 10 , p. 133 - 163 Posted: 1992
E Cokely , M Galesic , E Schulz , S Ghazal , R Garcia-Retamero
Measuring Risk Literacy: The Berlin Numeracy Test
Judgment and Decision Making , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,921
RANK
409,562
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies