Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Straight-Line and Accelerated Depreciation Rules on Risky Investment Decisions – An Experimental Study

arqus Discussion Paper No. 158

34 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2014

Hagen Ackermann

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 16, 2014

Abstract

The aim of this study is to analyze how depreciation rules influence the decision behavior of investors. For this purpose, we conduct a laboratory experiment in which participants decide on the composition of an asset portfolio in different choice situations. Using an experimental environment with different payment periods, we show that accelerated compared to straight-line depreciation can increase the willingness to invest as hypothesized by theory. Additionally, we are able to replicate the unexpected finding of Ackermann et al. (2013) – that introducing a subsidy leads to a lower willingness to take risk although the net returns are kept constant – with our setting which is different to their experimental environment.

Keywords: Taxation, Straight-line Depreciation, Accelerated Depreciation, Tax Perception, Risk Taking Behavior, Portfolio Choice, Behavioral Taxation

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Hagen and Fochmann, Martin, The Effect of Straight-Line and Accelerated Depreciation Rules on Risky Investment Decisions – An Experimental Study (April 16, 2014). arqus Discussion Paper No. 158, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
H References Ackermann , M Fochmann , B Mihm
Biased effects of taxes and subsidies on portfolio choices
Economics Letters , volume 120 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
M Arrazola , J De Hevia , J F Sanz
More on tax perception and labour supply: the Spanish case
Economics Letters , volume 67 , p. 15 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Blaufus , R Ortlieb
Is Simple Better? A Conjoint Analysis of the Effects of Tax Complexity on Employee Preferences Concerning Company Pension Plans
Schmalenbach Business Review (SBR) , volume 61 , p. 60 - 83 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S J Boylan , P J Frischmann
Experimental Evidence on the Role of Tax Complexity in Investment Decisions
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 28 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Chong Liu , Bangxi Li , Jim Huangnan Shen
<p><b><span>Accelerated Depreciation and Investment-driven Growth: A Marx-Okishio Approach</span></b></p>
25 Pages · Posted: 14 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
381,120
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies