Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abusive Transfer Pricing and Economic Activity

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2014/21

21 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2014

Soren Bo Nielsen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Guttorm Schjelderup

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 30, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates how concealment costs of transfer pricing and the probability of detection affect transfer pricing and firm behavior. We find that transfer pricing in intermediate production factors does not affect real activity of a multinational firm if the firm’s concealment effort as well as the probability of being audited by tax authorities are conditioned on the amount of shifted profits. If tax authorities rely on the standard OECD arm’s-length principle instead by reacting to a deviation of the transfer price from the market price, the multinational will for tax reasons adjust its production structure. A policy implication of the paper is that it should be preferable to condition audits on the amount of income shifted rather than on the distortion of the transfer price proper. Another policy finding is that improving the quality of tax law might be superior to higher detection effort. The former reduces profit shifting and concealment effort, whereas the latter leads to more wasteful use of resources on concealment and has an ambiguous effect on profits shifted.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing; Firm Behavior; Tax Law

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Nielsen, Soren Bo and Schindler, Dirk and Schjelderup, Guttorm, Abusive Transfer Pricing and Economic Activity (May 30, 2014). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2014/21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2451055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2451055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
The Design of Tax Structure: Direct versus Indirect Taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 6 , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1976
Crossref
J Becker , R B Davies
A Negotiation-Based Model of Tax-Induced Transfer Pricing Posted: 2013-12-12
T Bergin
Tax-free Latte. Starbucks Slips the UK Tax Hook. Reuters Special Report Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Carolin Holzmann
Transfer Pricing as Tax Avoidance Under Different Legislative Schemes
55 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 183
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,634
RANK
149,472
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Transfer Pricing Laws Limit International Income Shifting? Evidence from European Multinationals

By Theresa Lohse and Nadine Riedel

A Negotiation-Based Model of Tax-Induced Transfer Pricing

By Johannes Becker and Ronald B. Davies

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies