Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes, Earnings Payout, and Payout Channel Choice

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 426/2014

58 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2014

Philipp Geiler

EMLYON Business School

Luc Renneboog

Tilburg University - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

We study the tax regulations in relation to dividends and capital gains over the last two decades for the UK in order to determine whether changes in tax regimes affect corporate payout policy (dividends, share repurchases, or a combination). While we can identify investors’ tax-driven preferences for a specific payout channel, we find no evidence of tax-induced clienteles. Firms do indeed not cater to the tax preferences of their shareholders (including individuals, pension funds, corporations). Other factors, such as equity-based compensation received by the CEO and investor sentiment in the form of optimism reduce the dividend payout and increase the use of share repurchases.

Keywords: payout policy, dividends, share repurchases, taxation, regulation

JEL Classification: G28, G30, G35, G38

Suggested Citation:

Geiler, Philipp and Renneboog, Luc, Taxes, Earnings Payout, and Payout Channel Choice (June 1, 2014). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 426/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2451029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2451029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
David Aboody , Ron Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: the role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 216 - 251 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Antonio E Bernardo , Ivo Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Roni Michaely
Chapter 7 Payout policy
Handbook of the Economics of Finance, 1 (SUPPL. PART A) , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
Malcolm Baker , Jeffrey Wurgler
A catering theory of dividends
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1125 - 1165 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,324
RANK
175,068
5 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies