Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Inside Debt Moderate Corporate Tax Avoidance?

National Tax Journal

42 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2014 Last revised: 19 Jan 2020

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

G. Brandon Lockhart

Clemson University - Department of Finance

John R. Robinson

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 18, 2020

Abstract

Theory suggests that inside debt held by executives in the form of deferred compensation and unfunded pensions serves to align management incentives with creditors, thereby incentivizing them to act more conservatively. Evidence in the literature suggests that creditors favor less aggressive tax avoidance strategies. Accordingly, we investigate whether the level of inside debt is associated with less corporate tax avoidance. Consistent with theoretical predictions and the high level of financial sophistication of the chief financial officer (CFO), we find that the level of inside debt for the CFO, but not chief executive officer (CEO), is associated with less tax avoidance. In addition, we find that the proximity to financial distress magnifies the inverse relation between CFO inside debt and tax avoidance. Our results are robust to numerous supplemental tests, including instrumental variables estimation and matching.

Keywords: Tax risk, tax avoidance, inside debt, executive compensation, CFO incentives

JEL Classification: G32, H25, M41, J33

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Lockhart, G. Brandon and Robinson, John R., Does Inside Debt Moderate Corporate Tax Avoidance? (January 18, 2020). National Tax Journal , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2451228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2451228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Anantharaman , Vivian W Divya , Guojin Fang , Gong
Inside Debt and the Design of Corporate Debt Contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Divya Anantharaman , Yong Gyu Lee
Managerial Risk Taking Incentives and Corporate Pension Policy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 329 - 351 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Ronald C Anderson , Augustine Duru , David M Reeb
Founders, Heirs, and Corporate Opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Ronald C Anderson , M David , Wanli Reeb , Zhao
Family-controlled Firms and Informed Trading: Evidence from Short Sales
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 351 - 385 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,519
RANK
115,944
6 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies