Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
There Is No Spoon: Reconsidering the Tax Compliance Puzzle

17 Florida Tax Review 623 (2015)

46 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2014 Last revised: 1 Aug 2015

Jack Manhire

Texas A&M University School of Innovation; Bush School of Government & Public Service

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

For over 40 years theorists have sought the effects of tax audits on voluntary compliance rates by studying individual taxpayer motivations. Yet no single theory has produced a taxpayer incentive model that both comports with experience and explains the effects of audits on compliance. This quandary is often termed the “tax compliance puzzle.” Consequently, some theorists have called for more capacious models that make room for the panoply of individual compliance motivations. This paper proposes that a more complex model is unnecessary. To the contrary, complex compliance and enforcement data can result from extremely simple behavioral rules of individual taxpayers and government examiners interacting over time.

This paper describes an agent-based computational model that uses a single, simple rule of action for each taxpayer and examiner. The model produces three interesting effects supporting the conclusion that there may be no tax compliance puzzle to solve. First, the results comport with known U.S. compliance and audit rates. Second, the results suggest that while audit probability influences individual compliance decisions, it has negligible effects on system-level compliance patterns. Third, the results support the theory that the perceived strength of the tax authority correlates directly — but nonlinearly — with voluntary compliance rates. The model is not complete enough to determine conclusively that this last effect is due to perceived strength of the tax authority alone and might be due instead to factors such as social norms and other behaviorist theories.

Keywords: tax law, complex adaptive systems, tax compliance, tax evasion, tax salience, tax policy, tax morale, taxation

JEL Classification: C10, C40, C63, D81, D82, E10, H20, H26, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Manhire, Jack, There Is No Spoon: Reconsidering the Tax Compliance Puzzle (2015). 17 Florida Tax Review 623 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2459644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2459644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
are just as afraid of the tax authority) as they did half a century ago. 124 One might conjecture that since the government has not implemented policies to create more fear of the IRS, voluntary compliance has remained relatively steady. 125 Even though the IRS occasionally comes to noncompliance (N) rather than a positive motivator toward increased voluntary compliance, or a state of transition from noncompliance to compliance. 123. See Richard B. Malamud & Richard O. Parry, It's Time to Do Something about the Tax Gap, 9 HOUS
The implications of this result are surely unpopular, controversial, and for some, leaning unpalatably close to fascism. tax authority strength (i.e , volume 1 Posted: 2008-05-01
; Cong , Paul L Statement Of , Assoc Posner , Dir , Tax , Admin , U S Issues
See Malamud & Parry, at 8; IRS and the Tax Gap: Hearing before the H
Treas. Insp. Gen. Tax Admin , volume 6 Posted: 1963
Martin P See , Philosophy Golding , Of
Utilitarian deterrence theory justifies the punishment of one individual by arguing that the punishment deters the illegal act of a hypothesized second person. This second person supposedly foregoes an illegal act because he is afraid of receiving the same punishment he witnessed the government inflict on the first person , p. 72 - 76 Posted: 1974
one can be 95 percent confident that the voluntary compliance rate for the individual income tax return filing population will be between 80.71 and 83.72 percent, with a mean of 82.2 percent. Based on data reported by the IRS SOI division, the voluntary compliance rate for the same population for taxable years 1996 through 2010 has a mean of 82.2 percent, with a 95 percent confidence interval (two standard deviations) that the voluntary compliance rate for that period was between 80.75 and 83.76 percent. IRS, DATA BOOK Posted: 1998
Load more
2 Citations
Sebastian Benthall , Katherine J. Strandburg
Agent-Based Modeling as a Legal Theory Tool
Frontiers in Physics , volume 9 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Chris Leech
Detect and Deter or Catch and Release: Are Financial Penalties an Effective Way to Penalise Deliberate Tax Evaders?
Tax and Transfer Policy Institute Working Paper 6/2018 · 117 Pages · Posted: 24 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,144
RANK
145,309
2 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies