Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Corporate Risk-Taking

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2014 Last revised: 26 Jul 2017

Dominika Langenmayr

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

We study whether the corporate tax system provides incentives for risky firm investment. We analytically and empirically show two main findings: first, risk-taking is positively related to the length of tax loss periods because the loss rules shift some risk to the government; and second, the tax rate has a positive effect on risk-taking for firms that expect to use losses, and a weak negative effect for those that cannot. Thus, the sign of the tax effect on risky investment hinges on firm-specific expectations of future loss recovery.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, firm risk-taking, net operating losses

JEL Classification: H25, H32, G32

Suggested Citation:

Langenmayr, Dominika and Langenmayr, Dominika and Lester, Rebecca, Taxation and Corporate Risk-Taking (June 1, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2460931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
V Acharya , H Naqvi
The seeds of a crisis: A theory of bank liquidity and risk taking over the business cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S M Albring , D S Dhaliwal , I K Khurana , R Pereira
Short-term incentive effects of a reduction in the NOL carryback period
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , p. 67 - 88 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach
The significance of tax law asymmetries: An empirical investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Michael P. Donohoe , Petro Lisowsky , Michael Mayberry
Taxes, Competition, and Organizational Form
59 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2015 · Last revised: 11 Nov 2016 · Downloads: 348
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ALEXANDER LJUNGQVIST , LIANDONG ZHANG , LUO ZUO
Sharing Risk with the Government: How Taxes Affect Corporate Risk Taking
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 669 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Andreas Haufler , Pehr-Johan Norbäck , Lars Persson
Entrepreneurial innovations and taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 113 , p. 13 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
784
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,432
RANK
57,483
3 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bankruptcy Codes and Innovation

By Viral V. Acharya and Krishnamurthy Subramanian

Creditor Rights and Corporate Risk-Taking

By Viral V. Acharya, Yakov Amihud, ...

Creditor Rights and Corporate Risk-Taking

By Viral V. Acharya, Yakov Amihud, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies