Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance, Tax and Folk Tales

Accounting, Organizations and Society, 39(2), 134-147, 2014

50 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2014

Kevin Morrell

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Penelope Tuck

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This paper develops a particular narratological approach to analyse a common category of narratives: individuals’ accounts of their organization’s context and purpose. In two phases of interview research with 45 senior UK accounting professionals (tax officials, tax advisors to, and tax directors of, multinational companies) we focus on a pivotal period in the governance of UK taxation. We advocate analysing what ordinarily could be called 'real world' narratives about this context as if they were folk tales. This approach draws on an influential analysis of folk tales by Propp. Our theoretical contribution is to show how features of strong or dominant plots, of the kind that structure folk tales, also help accounting professionals to make sense of this complex governance environment. This helps us understand personal projects of sense making in a context that is technically, legally and morally complex and has implications for governance, for policy and for accounting as a professional project.

Keywords: accounting, emplotment, governance, narrative, Propp, tax, tax evasion, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: M40, H26, E62

Suggested Citation:

Morrell, Kevin and Tuck, Penelope, Governance, Tax and Folk Tales (2014). Accounting, Organizations and Society, 39(2), 134-147, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
Revenue & Customs Annual Report 2005-06 and Autumn Performance Report Posted: 2006
Crossref
Irc V Duke Of , Westminster
Crossref
W T
Ramsay v Inland Revenue Commissioners , p. 54 - 101 Posted: 1981
H P Abbott
The Cambridge Introduction to Narrative Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,769
RANK
418,383
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Should Tax Legislation Be Written from a ‘Principles and Purpose’ Point of View or a ‘Precise and Detailed’ Point of View?

By John Prebble Kc

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies