Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxes and Risk with a Fixed Supply of Risky Assets

17 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2014

David A. Guenther

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: July 8, 2014

Abstract

Economic theory has long argued that when risk-averse investors are price-takers, a tax on risky returns (with full tax benefit for losses) will cause investments in risky assets to increase because the tax reduces after-tax risk. We extend this result to a setting with a fixed supply of risky assets, so that the increased demand due to lower after-tax risk leads to an increase in price and a decrease in pre-tax returns. In this setting the tax-induced increase in demand for risky assets is mitigated by the lower pre-tax returns, and the increase is much smaller than predicted by previous models. Our results have important implications for understanding how taxes affect investor behavior and for studies in accounting that examine the effect of taxes on investments in risky assets.

Keywords: Risky assets; capital gains taxes; taxes and risk

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, David A. and Williams, Brian, Capital Gains Taxes and Risk with a Fixed Supply of Risky Assets (July 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2464267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
H Ackermann , M Fochmann , B Mihm
Biased effects of taxes and subsidies on portfolio choices
Economics Letters , volume 120 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Anderson , J Butler
Experimental evidence on the effects of tax incentives on risky security prices
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 19 , p. 58 - 76 Posted: 1997
A Atkinson , J Stiglitz
Lectures on Public Economics Posted: 1980
Crossref
S Dikolli , J Evans , Iii , J Hales , M Matejka , D Moser , M Williamson
Testing analytical models using archival or experimental methods
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , p. 129 - 139 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,118
RANK
411,653
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies