Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Incentives Under Formula Apportionment – Tax-Induced Distortions of Effort and Compensation in a Principal-Agent Setting

Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 168

54 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2014

Jan Thomas Martini

Bielefeld University - Department of Business Administration and Economics

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 10, 2014

Abstract

The introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB) and tax allocation via formula apportionment (FA) is hotly debated in the European Union (EU) since more than a decade. While the literature has thoroughly analyzed the economic effects of FA from a macro-level perspective, the firm view has been added only recently. Within this micro-level framework discussing possible tax-induced distortions of multi-jurisdictional entities’ (MJE) decisions becomes feasible. Anticipating the reactions of MJEs to the introduction of FA requires considering delegation and incentivisation, because management decisions are influenced by principal agent relationships.

How FA affects the demand for managerial effort is a hitherto neglected research question. Accordingly, the objective of this paper is to highlight the tax-induced distortions of managerial incentives caused by FA. For this purpose we set up a LEN-type principal-agent model with agents in two different jurisdictions. Compared to the case with separate taxation (ST) the principal demands increased effort and pays an increased compensation to managers in low-tax jurisdictions, if payroll enters the FA formula. Managers in high-tax jurisdictions face the opposite effect. Further, the composition of the compensation packages changes. Overall, net profit increases, because FA offers potential for profit shifting.

Keywords: Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, Formula Apportionment, Managerial Compensation, Multi-Jurisdictional Entities, Principal-Agent-Problem

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Martini, Jan Thomas and Niemann, Rainer and Simons, Dirk, Management Incentives Under Formula Apportionment – Tax-Induced Distortions of Effort and Compensation in a Principal-Agent Setting (July 10, 2014). Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 168, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464513 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2464513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B Anand , R Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy , volume 53 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Agents With and Without Principals , volume 90 , p. 203 - 208 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Are CEOs Rewarded for Luck? The Ones Without Principals Are
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 66 , p. 901 - 932 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Bettendorf , M Devereux , A Van Der Horst , S Loretz , R De Mooij
Corporate tax harmonization in the EU , volume 63 , p. 537 - 590 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jan Thomas Martini , Rainer Niemann
The impact of taxation on international assignment decisions: a principal–agent approach
Review of Managerial Science , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 703 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
373,668
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies