Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxes and Asset Prices: The Impact of Tax Awareness and Procrastination

33 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2014

Sebastian Eichfelder

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg

Mona Lau

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Date Written: July 15, 2014

Abstract

We argue that the impact of capital gains taxation on asset pricing depends on the tax awareness of market participants. While institutional investors should be generally well-informed about tax regulations, private investors have only limited tax knowledge and resources. As a result, market reactions on tax law changes may be delayed if a considerable fraction of market participants is not fully tax-aware. In line with our argument, we find evidence that the introduction of a previously announced German flat tax on private capital gains in 2009 resulted in a temporarily strong and significant increase of trading volumes, daily returns and asset prices. Our research implies that tax law changes provide an opportunity for well-informed investors to generate arbitrage benefits. Corresponding to our estimate, the capital gains tax resulted in an increase demand for shares of 160% as well as in an price surplus of about 7.4% within the last two trading days 2008.

Keywords: capital gains tax, asset pricing, tax awareness, tax arbitrage

JEL Classification: G1, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eichfelder, Sebastian and Lau, Mona, Capital Gains Taxes and Asset Prices: The Impact of Tax Awareness and Procrastination (July 15, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2466958 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2466958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Ahearne , W Griever , F Warnock
Information costs and home bias: An analysis of U.S. holding of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G A Akerlof
Procrastination and obedience
The American Economic Review 81 -Papers and Proceedings of the 103 rd Annual Meeting of the American Economic Association , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 1991
A Andersen , K M Nielson
Participation constraints in the stock market: Evidence from unexpected inheritence due to sudden death
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , p. 1667 - 1697 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob
Tax Incentives and Non-Compliance — Evidence from Swedish Micro Data
Public Finance Review, Forthcoming Pages: 33 Posted: 15 Aug 2013 Last revised: 21 Sep 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
271,971
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies