Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 72, 2016

53 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014 Last revised: 15 Feb 2017

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chong Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 30, 2014

Abstract

We examine the relation between customer concentration, a critically important aspect of a firm’s business model, and the level of corporate tax avoidance. A firm with a concentrated corporate customer base needs to hold more cash, faces a higher likelihood of financial distress, has a stronger incentive to manage earnings upwards, and is likely to be more risk tolerant. Since tax planning can increase both cash flow and accounting earnings and risk tolerant firms are more likely to accept the risks inherent in tax avoidance activities, we hypothesize that corporate customer concentration is positively associated with tax avoidance. As predicted, we find that various measures of corporate customer concentration are positively related to tax avoidance as measured by effective tax rate and book-tax difference. We also document that this positive relation is more pronounced when the firm captures a lower market share in its industry, enjoys less revenue diversification, and engages in less real earnings management. By contrast, we contend that a governmental major customer provides stable cash flow to suppliers and thus alleviates their need for tax avoidance. Consistent with this reasoning, we find that firms engage in lower levels of tax avoidance when they have a governmental major customer, and this association is less pronounced under Democratic presidencies. Together, our findings indicate that a firm’s business model (i.e., corporate and governmental major customer) has a significant effect on the extent to which it avoids taxes.

Keywords: customer concentration, tax avoidance, corporate major customer, governmental major customer, political cycle

JEL Classification: H20, G30, G38, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Henry and Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Chong and Xie, Hong, Customer Concentration and Corporate Tax Avoidance (May 30, 2014). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 72, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2469859 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2469859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
979
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,635
RANK
53,916
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies