Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Unrecognised Tax Benefits

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 9, No. 1, 2014

26 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014

Charles W. Mulford

Georgia Institute of Technology - Accounting Area

Alex Pfeffer

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

In this study, we examine unrecognised tax benefits for the firms comprising the S&P 100. Our objective is to clarify their accounting and measure their significance relative to assets, income tax expense and net income. While the median unrecognised tax benefit liability for our sample is approximately .8% of total assets, there are some firms with unrecognised tax benefit liabilities approaching ten percent of total assets. One required disclosure is the portion of the unrecognised tax benefit liability that, if recognised, would affect income tax expense. The median measure for this metric calculated across the sample is 77.7%. In effect, for the median firm, if unrecognised tax benefits were to be recognised, 77.7% of the unrecognised benefit would serve to reduce income tax expense and raise net income. Measured as a percentage of net income, the median amount of the portion of the unrecognised tax benefit liability that, if recognised, would affect income tax expense and net income is 11.8%. Given the level of judgment that must be employed in accounting for unrecognised tax benefits, the unrecognised tax benefit liability serves as an after-tax reserve. Adjustments to this reserve can have a material effect on net income.

During 2012, 90 sample firms reported a change in the unrecognised tax benefit liability. For the 50 companies that raised the liability, the median increase in income tax expense is 5.7%, leading to a median reduction in net income of 1.8%. For the 40 companies that lowered the liability, the median reduction in income tax expense is 1.9%, leading to a median increase in net income of 1.0%.

For analysts and investors these findings highlight the potential material effects that changes to unrecognised tax benefits can have on income tax expense and net income. For CFOs, these results offer benchmarking data for evaluating uncertain tax positions relative to other firms. For regulators and accounting standard setters these results offer insight into how accounting and disclosure rules for unrecognised tax benefits are being applied. Finally, for tax authorities, the data compiled here provide insight into the magnitude of uncertain tax positions.

Keywords: Unrecognised Tax Benefits, Accounting, Finance

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mulford, Charles W. and Pfeffer, Alex, Understanding Unrecognised Tax Benefits (2014). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 9, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Eugene E Comiskey , Charles W Mulford
The NonDesignation of Derivatives as Hedges for Accounting Purposes
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 16 Posted: 2008
O&apos; Vincent , Katie Connell , Sullivan
The Impact of Mandatory Conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of FTSEurofirst 80 Firms
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 2008
Guy Ford
Compensation Structure and Portfolio Selection in a Banking Firm
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2008
Wayne Lonergan
Pre and Post Tax Discount Rates and Cash Flows -a Technical Note
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 45 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,311
RANK
259,422
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies