Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study into Marginal Tax Rate Consciousness in a Low-Complexity Low-Rate Income Tax Jurisdiction

60 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2014 Last revised: 2 Jun 2015

Eng Hin Poh

Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

Studies exploring taxpayers’ awareness of their marginal income tax rates (MTRs) have been undertaken mainly in liberal democratic countries in Western Europe and North America where taxes on income are characterised by comparatively high rates and tax law complexity. This paper presents the findings of an exploratory study into taxpayers’ MTR perceptions in Singapore, a low-tax-rate jurisdiction with a comparatively simple income tax system. Generally, taxpayers in Singapore appear to be more MTR-conscious than their counterparts in Europe and North America, and a number of jurisdictional-specific factors are suggested as possible reasons for this. Overall, there was a (net) overestimation of MTRs attributable largely to a preponderance of lower-income taxpayers making relatively large overestimations. Consistent with the findings of earlier studies, there was substantial heterogeneity in MTR consciousness among taxpayers, with the accuracy of MTR perceptions found to be correlated with several socio-economic characteristics and tax-related circumstances of the taxpayers.

Keywords: Marginal tax rates, Perceptions, Awareness, Singapore

Suggested Citation:

Poh, Eng Hin, An Exploratory Study into Marginal Tax Rate Consciousness in a Low-Complexity Low-Rate Income Tax Jurisdiction (August 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2474928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2474928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Arrazola , J Hevia , J F Sanz
More on Tax Perception and Labour Supply: The Spanish Case
Economics Letters , volume 67 , p. 15 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Bernheim
Taxation and Saving
Handbook of Public Economics , volume 3 , p. 1173 - 249 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Blaufus , Bob , C Hundsdoerfer , D Sielaff , J Kiesewetter , Weimann
Perception of Income Tax Rates: Evidence from Germany
European Journal of Law and Economics Posted: 2013
Crossref
D D Bobek , R W Roberts , J T Sweeny
The Social Norms of Tax Compliance: Evidence from Australia, Singapore, and the United States
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 64 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
RANK
459,276
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies