Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Pressure and Corporate Tax Behavior

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2014-02-003

52 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2014 Last revised: 24 Nov 2015

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 19, 2015

Abstract

We use a shock to the public scrutiny of firm subsidiary locations to investigate whether that scrutiny leads to changes in firms’ disclosure and corporate tax avoidance behavior. ActionAid International, a non-profit activist group, levied public pressure on noncompliant U.K. firms in the FTSE 100 to comply with a rule requiring U.K. firms to disclose the location of all of their subsidiaries. We use this setting to examine whether the public pressure led scrutinized firms to increase their subsidiary disclosure, decrease tax avoidance, and reduce the use of subsidiaries in tax haven countries compared to other firms in the FTSE 100 not affected by the public pressure. The evidence suggests that the public scrutiny sufficiently changed the costs and benefits of tax avoidance such that tax expense increased for scrutinized firms. The results suggest that public pressure from outside activist groups can exert a significant influence on the behavior of large publicly-traded firms. Our findings extend prior research that has had little success documenting an empirical relation between public scrutiny of tax avoidance and firm behavior.

Keywords: Public pressure, tax avoidance, reputation costs, disclosure, tax havens

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H20, G39

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Wilde, Jaron H., Public Pressure and Corporate Tax Behavior (November 19, 2015). Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2014-02-003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2474346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2474346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
77 Citations
Chris Brooks , Carola Hillenbrand , Kevin Money
What Stakeholders Expect from Corporations When it Comes to Paying Tax: Corporate Reputation and Optimal Tax Planning
120 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2015 · Downloads: 410
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrew R. Finley , James Stekelberg
The Economic Consequences of Tax Service Provider Sanctions: Evidence from KPMG's Deferred Prosecution Agreement
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 57 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Kelvin Law , Lillian F. Mills
Taxes and Financial Constraints: Evidence from Linguistic Cues
Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 30 Jun 2014 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2015 · Downloads: 605
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Felipe Cortes , Armando R. Gomes , Radhakrishnan Gopalan
Corporate Inversions and Governance
52 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 19 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 600
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,648
RANK
19,884
77 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies