Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Female CFOs Less Tax Aggressive? Evidence from Tax Aggressiveness

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 16/2014

Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper No. 2474543

52 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2014

Bill Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Meng Yan

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 9, 2014

Abstract

​This paper investigates the effect of CFO gender on corporate tax aggressiveness. Focusing on firms that experience a male-to-female CFO transition, the paper compares those firms’ degree of tax aggressiveness during the pre- and post-transition periods. Using the probability of tax sheltering, the predicted unrecognized tax benefits, and the discretionary permanent book-tax differences to measure tax aggressiveness, we find that female CFOs are associated with less tax aggressiveness as compared to their male counterparts. The main findings are supported by additional tests based on propensity score matching, difference-in-difference tests, and tests with a female-to-male CFO transition sample. Overall, our study establishes CFO gender as an important determinant of tax aggressiveness.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, tax avoidance, gender, CFO, risk-aversion

JEL Classification: H26, M41, J16

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Bill and Hasan, Iftekhar and Wu, Qiang and Yan, Meng, Are Female CFOs Less Tax Aggressive? Evidence from Tax Aggressiveness (July 9, 2014). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 16/2014, Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper No. 2474543, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2474543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2474543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S M Atkinson , S B Baird , M B Frye
Do female mutual fund managers manage differently
Journal of Financial Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Chelsea Rae Austin , Ryan J. Wilson
Are Reputational Costs a Determinant of Tax Avoidance?
2013 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: Tax Avoidance in an International Setting Posted: 14 Feb 2013 Last revised: 2 Nov 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B M Barber , T Odean
Boys will be boys: gender, overconfidence, and common stock investment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 261 - 292 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
12 Citations
Thomas Bauer
Financial Incentives and the Subordinates' Identification with the CEO
34 Pages · Posted: 29 Aug 2017 · Last revised: 8 Dec 2018 · Downloads: 80
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nita Andriyani Budiman , Bandi .
Tax Avoidance: How Board of Directors Diversity Strategies are Applied in Facing Tax Audits?
Journal of Corporate Finance Management and Banking System , issue 36 , p. 26 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Sabrina Chi , Shawn X. Huang , Juan Manuel Sanchez
CEO Inside Debt Incentives and Corporate Tax Sheltering
Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 58 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2017 · Downloads: 376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Francesco Cortellese
Does the gender composition of the board of directors have any effect on tax aggressiveness in western countries?
Economics & Sociology , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 11 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
838
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,429
RANK
31,378
12 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Finland Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies