Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surrogate Taxation and the Second-Best Answer to the In-Kind Benefit Valuation Riddle

Brigham Young University Law Review, 153, 2012

39 Pages Posted: 23 May 2019 Last revised: 23 May 2019

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

For well over a century, theorists have debated how the receipt of in-kind benefits, such as meals and lodging furnished for the convenience of an employer and business entertainment opportunities, should be taxed. While debate participants have generally agreed that the receipt of such in-kind benefits constitutes income, the question has remained about whether to value such benefits at fair market value or at the recipient’s subjective value or to use some other metric. Because of administrative considerations in determining the tax base, the Internal Revenue Code (Code) historically used a binary approach: either include the in-kind benefit at its fair market value or exclude it in its entirety.

This analysis explores an intermediate approach known as surrogate taxation, a process by which one taxpayer bears another taxpayer’s tax burden. Over the past several decades, surrogate taxation has evolved and grown in prominence. It is now commonly used to tax the receipt of in-kind benefits (and other forms of income) in ways that produce outcomes that are more administrable, equitable, and efficient than the Code’s binary approach. While this analysis concludes that direct taxation is preferable to surrogate taxation, administrative concerns sometime dictate that the latter is often a necessary substitute.

Keywords: Tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay, Surrogate Taxation and the Second-Best Answer to the In-Kind Benefit Valuation Riddle (November 1, 2012). Brigham Young University Law Review, 153, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2475056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies