Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on Book-Tax Differences and Disclosure Quality Based on the Notes to the Financial Statements

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-047

50 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2014

Maria Evers

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Katharina Finke

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Sebastian Matenaer

University of Manheim

Ina Meier

University of Mannheim

Benedikt Zinn

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

The German Accounting Law Modernization Act (BilMoG) represents a change in paradigm with regard to the traditionally close relationship between financial and tax accounting in Germany. At the same time, requirements on the disclosure of deferred taxes were revised considerably. We make use of these new disclosure provisions to disaggregate firms’ deferred tax position and to analyze the components of temporary book-tax differences that add to the reporting gap in Germany. To this end, we apply a unique dataset of hand-collected information from individual financial statements for the fiscal year 2010. We find considerable differences between financial and tax accounting and observe that temporary book-tax differences are mainly associated with mandatory differences in accounting for provisions. The scope and quality of tax-related disclosures vary substantially and the overall disclosure quality is low. In order to identify the determinants of the heterogeneity of disclosure quality, we construct an index for voluntary and mandatory disclosure of deferred tax information and conduct multivariate analyses to explain firms’ disclosure decisions. We show that the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities on the face of the balance-sheet is significantly and positively related with disclosure quality in the notes to the financial statements. Further, our results suggest that larger firms are more likely to have high-quality tax disclosures and that high implementation costs could also explain the observed shortfalls in disclosure quality. Moreover, we find that different reporting incentives might apply if reporting on losses is assessed in isolation. We use these insights to derive implications for the discussion about whether and how to reform disclosure requirements under German GAAP.

Keywords: book-tax conformity; book-tax differences; deferred taxes; disclosure quality; tax reporting

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Evers, Maria and Finke, Katharina and Matenaer, Sebastian and Meier, Ina and Zinn, Benedikt, Evidence on Book-Tax Differences and Disclosure Quality Based on the Notes to the Financial Statements (July 1, 2014). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-047, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2475909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2475909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments, The Accounting Review , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure level in annual reports: A meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B Blaylock , T Shevlin , R J Wilson
Tax Avoidance, Large Positive Temporary Book Tax Differences and Earnings Persistence, The Accounting Review , p. 91 - 120 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Chavent , Y Ding , L Fu , H Stolowy , H Wang
Disclosure and determinants studies: An extension using the Divisive Clustering Method (DIV)
European Accounting Review , p. 181 - 218 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Domenico Campa , Ray Donnelly , Sean Bradley Power
Conceptual conformity of deferred tax accruals: evidence from Germany and the United Kingdom
Accounting Forum , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 206 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Mahfoudh Hussein Mgammal
The effect of components of tax saving on tax disclosure
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 574 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Heinz Gebhardt , Lars-H. R. Siemers
Die relative Steuerbelastung mittelständischer Kapitalgesellschaften: Evidenz von handelsbilanziellen Mikrodaten
Zeitschrift für Wirtschaftspolitik , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Mahfoudh Hussein Mgammal , Barjoyai Bardai , Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail
Corporate governance and tax disclosure phenomenon in the Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 779 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,700
RANK
170,582
6 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies