Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Noncompliance and Insider Trading

55 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2014 Last revised: 28 Nov 2015

Juha-Pekka Kallunki

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Jenni Mikkonen

University of Oulu

Henrik Nilsson

Stockholm School of Economics

Hanna Setterberg

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: November 26, 2015

Abstract

This paper explores whether insiders who have shown noncompliance with the tax law (‘noncompliant insiders’) are more prone to exploit their information advantage in insider trading, compared to other insiders (‘compliant insiders’). Our empirical results from analyzing archival data of all insider trades in Sweden show that noncompliant insiders use more of their information advantage to trade their insider stocks shortly before significant stock price changes, compared to compliant insiders. These results remain similar after controlling for various insider- and firm-specific determinants of insider returns, including firm and year fixed effects. We believe our results are of interest for academics and regulatory authorities monitoring and screening insider trading activity.

Keywords: Insider trading, Tax noncompliance

JEL Classification: M41, G10, G30, K42

Suggested Citation:

Kallunki, Juha-Pekka and Mikkonen, Jenni and Nilsson, Henrik and Setterberg, Hanna, Tax Noncompliance and Insider Trading (November 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2476888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2476888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J C Bettis , J L Coles , M L Lemmon
Corporate policies restricting trading by insiders Posted: 2000
Crossref
J H Collins , V C Milliron , D R Toy
Determinants of tax compliance: A contingency approach
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 14 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1992
Robert H. Davidson , Aiyesha Dey , Abbie J. Smith
Executives’ Legal Records and Insider Trading Activities
Fourth Annual Conference on Financial Market Regulation Pages: 40 Posted: 27 Feb 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Erard , J S Feinstein
Honesty and Evasion in the Tax Compliance Game
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Erik Johannesson
Former Insiders' Trading
66 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 89
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,024
RANK
324,400
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies