Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using IRS Data to Identify Income Shifting to Foreign Affiliates

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Aug 2014 Last revised: 24 Jan 2019

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

Income shifting is a significant source of tax planning for U.S. corporations. We use confidential Internal Revenue Service (IRS) data to develop a firm-year measure of income shifting. Our measure captures the relative extent of U.S. multinational entity (MNE) net intercompany payments out of the United States to CFCs. Our data show that the majority of sample firms report net inbound intercompany payments on average. Sample firms report nearly $830 billion of outbound payments and over $1 trillion of inbound payments in total. Companies reporting net outbound payments are smaller and operate in high-tech industries. Supplemental analyses show that firms with outbound intercompany payments have a lower rate of IRS audit and are no more likely to be assessed additional taxes upon audit. Our study provides a measure based on publicly available data that researchers, investors, and policymakers can use to infer outbound income shifting.

Keywords: income shifting, tax avoidance, international tax, IRS audit

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F. and Stomberg, Bridget, Using IRS Data to Identify Income Shifting to Foreign Affiliates (January 22, 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2477537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2477537
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,918
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies