Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Corporate Tax Avoidance: Effective Tax Rates and Book-Tax Differences

25 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2014

David A. Guenther

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 8, 2014

Abstract

I examine differences between effective tax rates (ETRs) and book-tax differences (BTDs) as alternative measures of corporate tax avoidance or tax aggressiveness. When BTDs are scaled by pretax income, the scaled BTD is statistically equivalent to the ETR. When BTDs are scaled by assets the resulting BTD measure is equivalent to the ETR multiplied by the firm's pretax return on assets (ROA), potentially adding measurement error unless ROA differences are part of the research design. Adding a control variable for ROA doesn't solve this problem. Any theoretical reason to use BTDs rather than ETRs in empirical research should be based on the effect of ROA. Simulated regression results demonstrate that, when ETR is the correct theoretical measure, BTDs don't provide any information beyond that provided in ETRs, and scaling by assets results in lower regression coefficients, potentially reflecting measurement error.

Keywords: effective tax rate, book-tax difference, tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, David A., Measuring Corporate Tax Avoidance: Effective Tax Rates and Book-Tax Differences (August 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2478952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2478952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
B Ayers , S Laplante , S Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: the effect of book/tax differences on credit rating changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Chi , M Pincus , S Teoh
Mispricing of book-tax differences and the trading behavior of short sellers and insiders
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 511 - 543 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Desai , D Dharmapala
Corporate tax avoidance and high powered incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 145 - 179 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,997
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,902
RANK
6,069
18 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies