Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Negotiation-Based Model of Tax-Induced Transfer Pricing

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4892

36 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2014

Johannes Becker

University of Cologne

Ronald B. Davies

University College Dublin (UCD)

Date Written: July 29, 2014

Abstract

We present a new model of tax induced transfer pricing as an alternative to the oft-used concealment model. Inspired by interviews with practitioners, we consider a large multinational firm which is audited by the tax authority in the high-tax location. When this country adjusts the transfer prices proposed by the firm, the low-tax location may dispute this decision and initiate negotiations. Since negotiations are costly, the high-tax location sets a transfer price that prevents the low-tax location from entering negotiations. We compare this model’s predictions to those of the concealment model. The negotiation model replicates the predictions on the tax rate effects on transfer pricing, while adding new predictions. Profit shifting is expected to fall in the high-tax country’s bargaining power and to rise in firm profits and domestic firm ownership in both countries. Most importantly, profit shifting occurs even if tax enforcement is perfect. We analyze the effects of an introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base with formula apportionment and conclude that the negotiation model may change the perspective on such a policy. Specifically, strong countries with large bargaining power may find this reform unappealing.

Keywords: transfer pricing, Nash bargaining, tax avoidance, corporate taxation

JEL Classification: H250, H320, H870

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Johannes and Davies, Ronald B., A Negotiation-Based Model of Tax-Induced Transfer Pricing (July 29, 2014). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4892, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2479813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2479813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M W J Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance through Transfer Pricing in OECD Countries'
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 52 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Bauer , D Langenmayr
Sorting into Outsourcing: Are Pro…ts Taxed at a Gorilla's Arm's Length?
Journal of International Economics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 326 - 336 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A B Bernard , J B Jensen , P K Schott
Transfer Pricing by U.S.-based Multinational Firms Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Thomas Tørsløv , Ludvig Wier , Gabriel Zucman
Externalities in International Tax Enforcement: Theory and Evidence
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 497 Posted: 2023
Crossref
R. Collier , N. Riedel
The OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative and Developing Countries
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 72 , issue 12 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Katarzyna Bilicka , André Seidel
Profit shifting and corruption
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 1051 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,202
RANK
206,880
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Transfer Pricing Laws Limit International Income Shifting? Evidence from European Multinationals

By Theresa Lohse and Nadine Riedel

Abusive Transfer Pricing and Economic Activity

By Soren Bo Nielsen, Dirk Schindler, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies