Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Progressive Taxation in a Tournament Economy

IZA Discussion Paper No. 8369

33 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2014 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Jeffrey P. Carpenter

Middlebury College - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Peter Hans Matthews

Middlebury College - Department of Economics

Benjamin Tabb

Middlebury College

Abstract

Not enough is known about the responsiveness of individuals, in particular those who tend to work under different incentives, to changes in marginal tax rates. We ask whether changes in marginal tax rates are less distortionary for workers engaged in a contest. To examine this potential rationale for a more progressive tax code, we first model the effort decisions of workers faced with progressive taxation under tournaments and piece rates. Because of the difficulty identifying any distortion that may be induced by the tax code in naturally occurring data, we then report on the results of a real-effort experiment based on this model. Consistent with a behavioral approach to public finance, we find that tournament workers are less sensitive, and conclude with a tentative evaluation of the welfare benefits of progressive taxation in tournament economies.

Keywords: real effort experiment, public good, tournaments, taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H41, J22, J33, C91

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Jeffrey P. and Matthews, Peter Hans and Tabb, Benjamin, Progressive Taxation in a Tournament Economy. IZA Discussion Paper No. 8369, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
W Amaldoss , Amnon Rapoport , ; Astor , ; Philipp , Marc ; Adam , Caroline Jaehnig , Stefan Seifert
The Joy of Winning and the Frustration of Losing: A Psychophysiological Analysis of Emotions in First-Price Sealed-Bid Auctions
Excessive Expenditure in Two-Stage Contests: Theory and Experimental Evidence," F. Columbus, Game Theory: Strategies, Equilibria, and Theorems , volume 6 , p. 14 - 30 Posted: 2009
Gary Charness , Peter Kuhn
Chapter 3 -Lab Labor: What Can Labor Economists Learn from the Lab? , p. 229 - 330 Posted: 2011
Hue ; Chen , Sung Ham , Noah Lim
Designing Multiperson Tournaments with Asymmetric Contestants: An Experimental Study , volume 57 , p. 864 - 883 Posted: 2011
David Cooper , Hanming Fang , ; Dechenaux , Emmanuel ; , Dan Kovenock , Roman Sheremeta , ; Delgado , Mauricio ; Schotter , Andrew ; Ozbay , Erkut , Elizabeth Phelps
Understanding Overbidding: Using the Neural Circuitry of Reward to Design Economic Auctions
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 118 , issue 532 , p. 165 - 190 Posted: 2008-09-26
Load more
2 Citations
Yizhaq Minchuk , Aner Sela
Subsidy and Taxation in All-Pay Auctions Under Incomplete Information
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16504 · 28 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 5
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Yizhaq Minchuk , Aner Sela
Carrots and Sticks: Collaboration of Taxation and Subsidies in Contests
JET-D-23-00850 · 28 Pages · Posted: 24 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
778,997
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies