Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: The Policy Underpinnings of the BEPS Project-Preserving the International Corporate Income Tax?

Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 62, No. 2, pp. 433-441, 2014

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 14/77

11 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2014 Last revised: 1 Sep 2014

Richard J. Vann

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: August 20, 2014

Abstract

The OECD/G20 Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) is receiving significant attention from taxpayers and national governments. Because the action plan is about action, it contains little discussion of the tax policy questions involved. One of the less-noticed aspects of the plan is action 11. From its heading and most of its content, action 11 seems to be largely about collecting data on BEPS, but it also involves the underlying policy. That is perhaps not surprising, since there is an inherent contradiction between the action plan and much of the policy work on corporate taxation undertaken by the OECD over the last 25 years. This article discusses the policy conflict and make the case for a more balanced view of the international corporate income tax.

Keywords: BEPS, corporate taxes, international taxation, tax policy

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Vann, Richard J., Policy Forum: The Policy Underpinnings of the BEPS Project-Preserving the International Corporate Income Tax? (August 20, 2014). Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 62, No. 2, pp. 433-441, 2014, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 14/77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2483619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
680
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,554
RANK
87,832
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies