Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Show Me the Money!' – Analyzing the Potential State Tax Implications of Paying Student-Athletes

Virginia Sports and Entertainment Law Journal, Vol. 14, pp. 13-49, 2014

37 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2014 Last revised: 2 Mar 2015

Kathryn Kisska-Schulze

Clemson University College of Business

Adam Epstein

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: June 17, 2014

Abstract

On March 26, 2014, the Chicago district (Region 13) of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) ruled that Northwestern University football players qualify as employees and can unionize and bargain collectively, a decision which contravenes the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s (NCAA) core principle of amateurism. Shortly after, Northwestern University filed an appeal with the NLRB in Washington, D.C. to quash the prior Region 13 decision. This case has added fuel to the longstanding debate over whether student-athletes should be paid. Amidst arguments both for and against supporting the pay-for-play model from a purely compensatory stance, there has been minimal focus on the realistic implications of paying student-athletes from an income tax perspective. The purpose of this article is to analyze the potential state income tax implications of paying student-athletes, and to address the impact that such taxes could have on the world of college athletics. As such, this article explores the history of the pay-for-play model and its relationship to the NCAA, analyzes the potential impact which state income taxes may have on college athletics should student-athletes be paid, and concludes that from a state income tax perspective, paying student-athletes will have a significant effect on the world of college sports.

Keywords: NCAA, pay-for-play, tax, NLRB, misappropriation, antitrust, student-athlete, state tax, jock tax, nexus.

Suggested Citation:

Kisska-Schulze, Kathryn and Epstein, Adam, 'Show Me the Money!' – Analyzing the Potential State Tax Implications of Paying Student-Athletes (June 17, 2014). Virginia Sports and Entertainment Law Journal, Vol. 14, pp. 13-49, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2484597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E G See , Mlb , Com
Posted: 2014-06-03
Mike G Morreale
NHL Teams Grab 20 High-Schoolers in Draft, NHL.COM Posted: 2012-06-23
Crossref
Marc Normandin , Draft
How the MLB Draft Works, SBNATION Posted: 2013-06-06
E G See , Mike Florio
Sam May Have Been Better Off Going Undrafted, PRO FOOTBALL TALK Posted: 2014-05-13
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,797
RANK
55,687
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies