Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Unsuccessful Tax Avoiders

72 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2014

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

A longstanding question is why an important fraction of public companies pay relatively large amounts in taxes, apparently forgoing the benefits of tax avoidance. This study finds that firms with high effective tax rates are, to some extent, unsuccessful tax avoiders. These firms engage in tax avoidance activities but later return part of their tax savings to tax authorities. Moreover, lenders penalize these firms with higher loan spreads and more restrictive contract terms. This effect is economically important and represents a cost of engaging in tax avoidance activities. Overall, this study contributes to our understanding of corporate tax behavior by presenting the first study that analyzes unsuccessful tax avoiders.

Keywords: Unsuccessful Tax Avoidance, Failed Tax Strategies, Tax Settlements, Debt Contracting

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Saavedra, Daniel, Analysis of Unsuccessful Tax Avoiders (September 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2486917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2486917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Gleason , L Mills
Materiality and contingent tax liability reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 317 - 342 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J R Graham
Taxes and corporate finance: a review
Review of Financial Studies , volume 16 , p. 1074 - 1128 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Graham , M Hanlon , T Shevlin , N Shroff
Incentives for Tax Planning and Avoidance: Evidence from the Field
The Accounting Review Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Harald Amberger
Tax Uncertainty and Dividend Payouts
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2017
Crossref
Thomas R. Loy
Earnings and Balance-Sheet Properties and the Interplay of Tax Incentives and Tax Enforcement
Forthcoming in International Journal of Economics and Accounting · Posted: 26 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 28 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,368
RANK
163,472
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies