Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deconstructing the Rules of Corporate Tax

Akron Tax Journal, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 1-54, 2010

George Mason Law & Economics Research Paper No. 14-38

54 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2014

Rachelle Holmes Perkins

George Mason University School of Law

Date Written: August 27, 2014

Abstract

The U.S. corporate tax system is failing to keep pace with the evolving global economic landscape. The overwhelmingly complex regime rewards aggressive tax planning and creates incentives for corporations to move their capital and tax homes offshore. Calls for fundamental reform are escalating as the current system succumbs to the pressures of declining revenues, ever-emerging loopholes, and the perpetuation of one of the highest national statutory rates in the world. Indeed, President Obama and members Congress have acknowledged these shortcomings and affirmed their commitment to significantly overhaul the corporate tax system. Academics, practitioners, and the White House have proposed any number of reform measures to deal with the problems plaguing the U.S. corporate tax regime, including moving from a worldwide to a territorial-based regime, eliminating deferral, and lowering the statutory rate. However, these solutions involve varying structural and statutory changes, which are in fact extrinsic to the form of the underlying rules themselves. In contrast, this Article argues for an innate form of change to the U.S. corporate tax rules, which would fundamentally affect the way in which tax lawmakers actually draft tax rules and regulations. In particular, it argues that a systemic focus and commitment by lawmakers to a more principles-based approach to regulation would significantly mitigate many of the challenges currently encumbering the U.S. tax regime. Generally speaking, as used herein, principles-based rules are rules in which the principle underlying the rule is actually stated on the face of the rule. In contrast, prescriptive rules are rules for which the lawmaker ex ante prescribes an outcome for a set of anticipated factual situations by applying, but not stating directly, the underlying principle. Unlike the present system, which relies almost exclusively on a complex entanglement of bright-line prescriptive rules, a principles-focused corporate tax regime would help significantly simplify tax provisions, close loopholes, make the system more responsive to a dynamic marketplace, and serve as a gateway to lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate. Thus, the implementation of more principles-based rules should be given consideration in any contemplated tax reform proposals.

Keywords: adaptable, corporate tax, globalization, global market, highly structured transactions, loopholes, multinational corporations, MNC, prescriptive rules, principles-based rules, self-help, simplification, social costs, statutory corporate tax rates, tax policy

JEL Classification: K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Perkins, Rachelle Holmes, Deconstructing the Rules of Corporate Tax (August 27, 2014). Akron Tax Journal, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 1-54, 2010, George Mason Law & Economics Research Paper No. 14-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
In total, 140 requests were made within the IRS between 2003 and 2007 to apply the partnership anti-abuse regulation, and all but twelve were approved. Id. In March of 2007, the National Office granted blanket approval for agents to use the regulation in the case of seven specific transactions. IRS Gives Agents Blanket Authority to Apply Partnership Anti-Abuse Reg
TAX NOTES TODAY , p. 51 - 56 Posted: 1994
Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act, S. 1054, 108th Cong Posted: 2003
Taxpayer Accountability Act, H.R. 1555, 108th Cong. § , volume 101 Posted: 2003
Crossref
The Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,190
RANK
505,351
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Antonin Scalia Law School, George Mason University, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies