Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Serving Bias and Tax Morale

FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 17/2014

8 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2014

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Matthias Braune

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Jochen Hundsdoerfer

Free University of Berlin (FUB); Norwegian Center for Taxation; ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: September 1, 2014

Abstract

In a real-effort laboratory experiment to manipulate evasion opportunities, we study whether the moral evaluation of tax evasion is subject to a self-serving bias. We find that tax morale is egoistically biased: Subjects with the opportunity to evade taxes judge tax evasion as less unethical as opposed to those who cannot evade. The detection probability does not affect this result. Further, we do not find moral spillover effects, for example, on legal activities.

Keywords: Evasion, Tax Morale, Tax Compliance, Self-Serving Bias, Moral Spillover

JEL Classification: H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Braune, Matthias and Hundsdoerfer, Jochen and Jacob, Martin, Self-Serving Bias and Tax Morale (September 1, 2014). FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 17/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2489834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2489834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J C Baldry
Tax evasion is not a gamble: A report on two experiments
Economics Letters , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 333 - 335 Posted: 1986
C Blanthorne , S Kaplan
An egocentric model of the relations among the opportunity to underreport, social norms, ethical beliefs, and underreporting behavior. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 33 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 684 - 703 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Brosig-Koch , C Helbach , A Ockenfels , J Weimann
Still different after all these years: Solidarity behavior in East and West Germany
Journal of Public Economics , volume 95 , issue 11 , p. 1373 - 1376 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,699
RANK
439,313
5 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of a Sick Pay Reform on Absence and on Health-Related Outcomes

By Patrick A. Puhani and Katja Sonderhof

The Effects of a Sick Pay Reform on Absence and on Health-Related Outcomes

By Patrick A. Puhani and Katja Sonderhof

Spreading the Wealth Around: Reflections Inspired by Joe the Plumber

By N. Gregory Mankiw

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies