Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 Income Taxes: Convergence or Divergence with Local Accounting Standards in Selected ASEAN Countries?

Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 2015, Vol. 9 (1) 3-24.

24 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2014 Last revised: 14 Jul 2015

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

P. W. S. Yapa

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Mahesh Joshi

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

This article concerns inter-disciplinary research on questions about the socio-economic impact of the adoption and convergence of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) with local standards in selected countries. The article approaches the research in two stages. The first stage concerns the findings and analysis relating to the general impact of the IFRS standards on Singapore and Malaysia. Findings reveal that respondents expressed reservations about cited IFRS adoption benefits, including increases of foreign investment and equity cost reductions; and stakeholder confidence has been eroded by the complex harmonising of principles-based 'fair value' requirements. Debate continues on the application of IFRS regarding standards on financial instruments, real estate and agriculture. Our qualitative research methodology of survey uses institutional theory and stakeholder theory for analysis.

The second stage posits further research for IAS12 Income Taxes, given accounting standards are one starting point for tax compliance, and that income taxes form part of financial statements. A test questionnaire was prepared and industry respondents were asked questions on the extent of IAS12’s challenges to practitioners in Australia.

Keywords: IFRS, Southeast Asia, socio-economic impacts, IAS 12 income taxes

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane and Yapa, P. W. S. and Joshi, Mahesh, The Adoption of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 12 Income Taxes: Convergence or Divergence with Local Accounting Standards in Selected ASEAN Countries? (January 1, 2015). Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 2015, Vol. 9 (1) 3-24., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2490331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
M Ali
A synthesis of empirical research on international accounting harmonisation and compliance with international financial reporting standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2005
G Bailey , K Wild
International Accounting Standards: A guide to preparing accounts Posted: 1998
B Banerjee , S Martens , J Mcenroe
Accounting Standard-Setting: A comparison of India and the United States , p. 239 - 251 Posted: 1998
R Briston
Accounting in developing countries: Indonesia and The Solomon Islands as case studies for regional co-operation
Research in Third World Accounting Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
750
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,123
RANK
77,478
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies