Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Tax Strategies: It's Not Just Minimization

53 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2014

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 15, 2014

Abstract

This study examines managerial incentives and practices associated with firms’ tax strategy choices, as well as the relative importance of these factors in determining the primary focus of firms’ tax strategies. Understanding the determinants of firms’ choice of tax strategy is important because the Scholes-Wolfson framework argues that the goal of effective tax planning is to maximize after-tax returns. Therefore, identifying managerial incentives and practices that influence tax strategy choice provides insight into how firms encourage tax planning to improve firm value. I examine two tax strategies: a sustainable tax strategy, which strives to achieve a consistent tax outcome over time, and a minimization tax strategy, which seeks to achieve the lowest possible tax outcome. Controlling for the interdependence of tax strategies, I find that firms are more likely to emphasize a sustainable tax strategy when the CEO’s wealth is more sensitive to changes in the firm’s stock price and less likely to emphasize sustainability when the firm receives more information from its directors’ connections. In contrast, a firm is more likely to concentrate on a minimization tax strategy when the CEO’s wealth is more sensitive to changes in stock return volatility, the firm hires a tax expert audit firm for tax services, or the firm receives more information from its directors’ connections. Finally, I find that managerial incentives are the most important factors for the choice of tax strategy, followed by the practices of obtaining expert tax advice and information from directors’ connections.

Keywords: sustainable tax strategies, minimization tax strategies, managerial incentives and practices

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Neuman, Stevanie S., Effective Tax Strategies: It's Not Just Minimization (September 15, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2496994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2496994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
744
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,630
RANK
78,308
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies