Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Behavior and Political Uncertainty: Evidence from National Elections around the World

Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management Research Paper No. 2498198

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 21-03

60 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2014 Last revised: 10 Feb 2021

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Richard H. Willis

Vanderbilt University - Accounting

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: Dec 28, 2020

Abstract

We construct a global sample of firms in 36 countries with 158 elections to examine corporate tax behavior in the face of political uncertainty. We define political uncertainty as unpredictability regarding governmental policies or regulatory shifts, such as tax rates, tax enforcement, and general economic conditions, emanating from a possible change in political leadership. If insufficient information exists to develop plausible expectations about future tax- related outcomes, ambiguity-averse managers will attend to relatively more pessimistic priors and assume the worst-case scenario. Therefore, we expect firms to increase tax avoidance in election years, given uncertainty regarding the post-election tax and macroeconomic environment. Our results support this argument. Firms increase their corporate tax avoidance in election years, consistent with managers exercising current tax planning strategies while still most optimal to do so given post-election uncertainty. The effect is increasing in the political uncertainty associated with the election. Specifically, the result is larger for elections that are closely contested, representing uncertainty regarding the victor, and in countries with fewer electoral checks and balances. We document increased reshuffling of tax burdens across firms after elections, further supporting that elections reflect periods of heightened uncertainty regarding corporate taxation.

Keywords: corporate taxation; tax avoidance; political uncertainty; national elections

JEL Classification: H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Li, Qingyuan and Maydew, Edward L. and Willis, Richard H. and Xu, Li, Corporate Tax Behavior and Political Uncertainty: Evidence from National Elections around the World (Dec 28, 2020). Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management Research Paper No. 2498198, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 21-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2498198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2498198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Y Liu , D Mauer , Y Zhang
The hedging benefits of industrial and global diversification: Evidence from economic downturns
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 45 , p. 9 - 10 Posted: 2018
Crossref
L Luc , F Valencia
Systemic banking crises database II
IMF Economic Review , volume 68 , p. 307 - 361 Posted: 2020
J Mei , M Guo
Political uncertainty, financial crisis and market volatility
European Financial Management , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 639 - 657 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Mills , S Nutter , C Schwab
The effect of political sensitivity and bargaining power on taxes: Evidence from Federal contractors
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 977 - 1005 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,750
RANK
40,803
15 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies