Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of R&D: Review of Practices

Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 28/STI/2014

33 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2014

Galina Kitova

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: September 22, 2014

Abstract

In recent years R&D tax incentives have been characterized by increasing scale and spread on innovation activity. Approaches to integrated R&D tax incentives into "recipes" for long-term growth and competitiveness were developed and tested in many countries. For example, only 12 OECD members employed R&D tax incentives in 1995, but 27 members do so in 2013 (as well as Brazil, China, India, Russia and other countries). And their share of total government expenditure on R&D (direct and tax) by OECD member countries reached at least a third. These trends have accompanied the development and testing of approaches to estimate the costs of tax support for R&D (including tax expenditures) and its effects and to ensure that they are internationally compatible.

As for Russia, there are no officially accepted estimates of the scale and effectiveness of R&D and innovation tax support yet, though efforts to calculate them have been under way since 2010. This paper includes the current state of empirical research of tax support for R&D and innovation in the Russian Federation, as well as a survey of the demand for its tools from research institutes, universities performing R&D, and manufacturing enterprises, which was conducted in 2012-2013. The results obtained demonstrate the power of empirical analysis and optimization of R&D and innovation tax incentives in the Russian Federation, against the background of the field's best practices and current trends.

Keywords: R&D, innovation, tax incentives, tax expenditures, demand for R&D and innovation tax incentives.

JEL Classification: H21, H22, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kitova, Galina, Taxation of R&D: Review of Practices (September 22, 2014). Higher School of Economics Research Paper No. WP BRP 28/STI/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2499443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2499443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Accounts Chamber
Report on the results of oversight of "Proverka effecktivnosti mer nalogovo stimulirovaniya innovatsionnoy deyatelnosti za 2009-2010 gody , p. 71 - 103 Posted: 0168
B Anderson
Tax Expenditures in OECD Countries (5 th Annual Meeting of OECD Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Bernstein
The Effect of Direct and Indirect Tax Incentives on Canadian Industrial R&D Expenditures , p. 438 - 486 Posted: 1986-09
Crossref
Brussels
Comparing Practice in R&D Tax Incentives Evaluation
Final Report. Expert Group on R&D Tax Incentives Evaluation. Accessed Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
610,038
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies