Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Household Debt and Capital Gains Taxation

25 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2014 Last revised: 10 Apr 2015

David Joulfaian

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA); Georgetown University - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 30, 2014

Abstract

By borrowing against their appreciated assets, individuals are able to postpone realizing capital gains and defer paying taxes to a later date, or avoiding them altogether if the assets are held until death. While the effects of capital gains taxes on investment incentives are well studied, there is very little in the way of evidence in the literature to support the proposition that taxes on realized capital gains lead to greater borrowing. This paper employs pooled samples of estate tax returns spanning 25 years to gauge how leverage varies with capital gains taxes. The data is ideally suited to measuring debt held by the well off elderly. The findings suggest that the debt ratio rises with capital gains tax rates, and add another dimension to the dynamics of household debt in the US.

Keywords: debt, capital gains taxes, step-up in basis

JEL Classification: D12, D14, H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

Joulfaian, David, Household Debt and Capital Gains Taxation (December 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2500993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2500993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Alan J Auerbach
Capital Gains Taxation and Tax Reform
National Tax Journal , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 391 - 401 Posted: 1989
Alan J Auerbach , E Leonard , Jonathan M Burman , Siegel
Capital Gains Taxation and Tax Avoidance: New Evidence from Panel Data
Does Atlas Shrug? ed. Joel B. Slemrod , p. 355 - 388 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Gerald E Auten , Charles T Clotfelter
Permanent versus Transitory Tax Effects and the Realization of Capital Gains
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 613 - 632 Posted: 1982-11
Crossref
Gerald E Auten , David Joulfaian
Taxes and Capital Gains Realizations: Evidence from a Long Panel Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
RANK
484,258
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies