Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Lobbying and Corporate Political Activity: How Do Firms Seek Tax Relief?

66 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2014

John A. Barrick

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Raquel Meyer Alexander

Freeman College of Management

Date Written: September 22, 2014

Abstract

Corporate lobbying is an important and growing component of firms’ corporate political activity. According to recent reports, 2,220 organizations spent $773 million on 6,500 tax lobbyists in the 2011-2012 Congress with the number of tax lobbyists predicted to grow 30 percent by 2014 (Byrnes 2013). While a growing number of academic studies explore outcomes of tax lobbying (e.g., Alexander et al. 2009), little is known about how lobbying is actually performed. The purpose of this study is to describe the lobbying processes that occur at the legislative and administrative branches of the federal government. To accomplish this, we conducted a series of semi-structured interviews with lobbyists representing corporations and trade associations, as well as current and former staff members of the House Ways and Means Committee, Senate Finance Committee and the Joint Committee on Taxation. We provide context for our findings by categorizing the tax literature related to corporate political activity and identifying open research questions and also referencing lobbying data sources available to academic researchers interested in this field. This study contributes to a more complete understanding of the tax lobbying process and as such, provides the basis for researchers to identify more relevant research questions. Further, this study may provide educators a more robust understanding of the tax legislative process to facilitate classroom discussion of this important topic.

Keywords: Taxation, Lobbying, Corporate Political Activity

JEL Classification: H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Barrick, John and Alexander, Raquel Meyer, Tax Lobbying and Corporate Political Activity: How Do Firms Seek Tax Relief? (September 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2500959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2500959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Raquel Meyer Alexander , Stephen W. Mazza , Susan Scholz
Measuring Rates of Return for Lobbying Expenditures: An Empirical Case Study of Tax Breaks for Multinational Corporations
Journal of Law and Politics, Vol. 25, No. 401, 2009 Pages: 36 Posted: 10 Apr 2009 Last revised: 19 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Ayers , C B Cloyd , J Robinson
Read My Lips…": Does the Tax Rhetoic of Presidential Candidates Affect Security Prices?
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 148 Posted: 2005
Crossref
V P Baloria , K J Klassen , C I Weidman
Shareholder Activism and Political Spending Posted: 2013
M L Barnett
One Voice, But Whose Voice? Exploring What Drives Trade Association Activity
Business & Society , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 213 - 244 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,658
RANK
88,500
9 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies