Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Decisions and Depreciation Choices Under a Discretionary Tax Depreciation Rule

42 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2014 Last revised: 20 Jan 2017

Jacco L. Wielhouwer

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Eelke Wiersma

VU University, Amsterdam; VU University Amsterdam - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 25, 2014

Abstract

Prior studies have shown limited impact of the US bonus depreciation rules on firm investments during economic downturns. In this article we study the effects of a set of more flexible rules – discretionary tax depreciation (DTD) – introduced in the Netherlands during the 2009-2011 economic crisis. Our simulation results show DTD, which allows firms to accelerate and also to postpone depreciation, to be much more effective than bonus depreciation in reducing the expected value of tax payments, especially in crisis periods. Using a sample of 325 clients of a single office of a Dutch accounting firm, we show that DTD has led to higher investments in assets qualifying for discretionary depreciation for firms that faced the highest marginal tax rate. For other firms, the additional investments crowd out investments in assets that do not qualify for DTD. Our analysis on the actual depreciation choices reveals that firms postpone depreciation when facing losses or loss carryforwards, or to smooth taxable income under the progressive tax system. Our results suggest that a fiscal policy that permits firms to postpone depreciation, as well as to accelerate, may stimulate investment.

Keywords: tax depreciation, bonus depreciation, investments, income smoothing

JEL Classification: H25, H32, D22, E62

Suggested Citation:

Wielhouwer, Jacco L. and Wiersma, Eelke and Wiersma, Eelke, Investment Decisions and Depreciation Choices Under a Discretionary Tax Depreciation Rule (September 25, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2501238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2501238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Karl O. Aarbu , Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason
Explaining Underutilization of Tax Depreciation Deductions: Empirical Evidence from Norway
Pages: 32 Posted: 7 Apr 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Berg , A De Waegenaere , J L Wielhouwer
Optimal tax depreciation with uncertain future cash flows
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 132 , p. 197 - 209 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Darrel S. Cohen , Jason Gustav Cummins
A Retrospective Evaluation of the Effects of Temporary Partial Expensing
FEDS Working Paper No. 2006-19 Pages: 26 Posted: 21 Jun 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D S Cohen , D.-P Hansen , K A Hassett
The effect of temporary partial expensing on investment incentives in the United States
National. Tax Journal , volume 15 , p. 457 - 466 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
401,129
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies