Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retroactive Tax Legislation, Reported Earnings, and Investors' Responses to Earnings 'Surprises': Evidence from R&D Credit Extensions

Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 38, No. 2, p. 87-109, 2016

Posted: 28 Sep 2014 Last revised: 10 Dec 2017

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

David S. Hulse

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 2016

Abstract

When Congress retroactively extends a temporary tax rule, the effect on earnings is complex because financial reporting standards require firms to apply the integral method using enacted tax law to determine quarterly income tax expense. We model this effect and examine earnings announcements following retroactive extensions of the federal R&D tax credit to test how investors incorporate the effect into stock prices. We find that investors respond when earnings are announced, even though the effect could have been determined several weeks earlier. We also show that, in recent years, the effects of retroactive extensions of the credit are a substantial part of the average decrease in effective tax rates (ETRs) from the third to fourth quarter for calendar-year firms. Our results have implications for investors and researchers examining earnings and ETRs around retroactive extensions of temporary tax rules and suggest that Congressional delays and GAAP interact to produce unintended consequences.

Keywords: R&D credit, earnings expectations, effective tax rates

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G14, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Hulse, David S., Retroactive Tax Legislation, Reported Earnings, and Investors' Responses to Earnings 'Surprises': Evidence from R&D Credit Extensions (January 2016). Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 38, No. 2, p. 87-109, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2502139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2502139
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,546
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies