Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incentives as Determinants of Accounting for and Spending on R&D: An International Analysis

41 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2014

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Apostolos Ballas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 2, 2014

Abstract

This article is an investigation of the conundrum of firms whose tax-minimising incentives should result in lower reported income by expensing R&D, while their financial reporting ones should result in higher reported income by capitalising R&D. Tax incentives for R&D help align those goals when accounting regulation permits the capitalisation of R&D. We use firms listed in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the Netherlands reporting under IFRS, and find that R&D-related tax benefits at the country level induce firms to at least partly capitalize, rather than expense R&D. Our results also indicate that country-specific R&D tax benefits provide significant incentives for increasing R&D expenditures, especially among high R&D spenders. Our findings are indicative of the influence of R&D tax incentives on accounting policies, well and above the amount of investments they are meant to induce.

Keywords: R&D expenditure, R&D capitalisation, tax incentives, accounting choice

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Ballas, Apostolos A., Tax Incentives as Determinants of Accounting for and Spending on R&D: An International Analysis (October 2, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2504435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Giuseppe Di Martino , Grazia Dicuonzo , Arcangelo Vitelli , Vittorio Dell’Atti
Are tax incentives determinant and relevant for capitalizing R&D expenditures? Evidence from Europe
FINANCIAL REPORTING , issue 2 , p. 63 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
267,661
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies