Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance, Financial Experts on the Audit Committee, and Business Strategy

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 45, Issue 9-10, 2018

Posted: 4 Oct 2014 Last revised: 8 Nov 2018

Pei Hui Hsu

California State University, East Bay - School of Business & Economics

Jared A. Moore

Western Washington University

Donald O. Neubaum

Oregon State University

Date Written: August 23, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether financial expert audit committee members tailor their approach to overseeing the corporate tax planning process according to the firm's business strategy. We predict and find that such directors encourage defender‐type firms (characterized partially by high risk aversion) to engage in more tax avoidance activities and prospector‐type firms (characterized partially by innovation and risk seeking) to scale back on tax avoidance, relative to the opposing strategy type. We also find that both accounting experts and non‐accounting financial experts on the audit committee contribute to our results to some extent, although the effects of non‐accounting financial experts present more consistently. Overall, our results suggest that financial experts on the audit committee tend to play more of an advising role for defenders and more of a monitoring role for prospectors, relative to one another.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness, financial experts, board of directors, audit committee, business strategy

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, G3, L19, L21

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Pei Hui and Moore, Jared A. and Neubaum, Donald O., Tax Avoidance, Financial Experts on the Audit Committee, and Business Strategy (August 23, 2018). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol. 45, Issue 9-10, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2504845
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies