Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of the Time-Series Increase in the Relative Informativeness of Taxable Income for Future Earnings and Stock Returns

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2505739

57 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2014 Last revised: 19 Dec 2015

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Steve C. Lim

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Date Written: December 17, 2015

Abstract

Prior research finds that taxable income is a more useful performance metric when book income quality is low (i.e., the “supplemental information role of taxable income”). We predict and find that taxable income’s supplemental information role for future earnings growth increases over time as book income quality declines over time. This time-series increase in the supplemental information role of taxable income is associated with temporal changes in the market pricing of book-tax differences. We find that mispricing disappears over time in firms where the supplemental information role of taxable income is less pronounced, but persists in firms where the supplemental information role of taxable income is more pronounced. Thus, the complexity of tax-based information and the time-series increase in the supplemental role of taxable income appear to be factors that limit investor learning. Investigating the increase in the supplemental information role of taxable income helps researchers and market participants better understand the time-series implications of two different performance metrics for predicting earnings growth and the equity valuation process as book income quality declines over time.

Keywords: Earnings quality; Earnings growth; Taxable income; Investor learning

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sangwan and Koester, Allison and Lim, Steve, Implications of the Time-Series Increase in the Relative Informativeness of Taxable Income for Future Earnings and Stock Returns (December 17, 2015). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2505739, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2505739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Affleck-Graves , R Mendenhall
The relation between the Value Line enigma and post-earnings-announcement drift
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 96 Posted: 1992
Crossref
B Ayers , J Jiang , S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,393
RANK
163,472
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies