Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misreporting of Value-Added Tax (VAT) and Optimal Enforcement

CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-061

27 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2014 Last revised: 7 Aug 2018

Mohammad Hoseini

Tehran Institute for Advanced Studies; Tilburg University - Center for Economic Research (CentER); Tilburg University - European Banking Center

Date Written: July 7, 2018

Abstract

This paper models misreporting fraud in the VAT when firms are heterogeneous in the level of unverifiable transactions and subjective evasion costs. Unverifiable transactions are determined by the level of sales to final consumers and the subjective evasion costs change the curvature of the cost function. The optimal audit rate is not monotone in unverifiable transactions and depends on the subjective evasion costs. This result highlights the importance of predictive analytics to characterize evasion opportunities and risk premium of taxpayers. Given the high degree of cost convexity of large incorporated enterprises, the optimal audit rate can be higher for medium-sized enterprises.

Keywords: Value-added tax, Tax evasion, Information reporting, Predictive analytics

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Hoseini, Mohammad, Misreporting of Value-Added Tax (VAT) and Optimal Enforcement (July 7, 2018). CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-061, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2505998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
L Bruttel , T Friehe
On the path dependence of tax compliance
European Economic Review , volume 65 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Z Dai , R M Hogarth , M Villeval
Ambiguity on audits and cooperation in a public goods game
European Economic Review , volume 74 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,188
RANK
331,643
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies