Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of the R&D Tax Credit: Evidence from the Alternative Simplified Credit

Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 37, Issue 1, pp. 157-182, 2015

Posted: 7 Oct 2014 Last revised: 10 Jun 2015

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Kirsten A. Cook

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: September 23, 2014

Abstract

We examine the influence of the Alternative Simplified Credit (ASC) on firms’ research and development (R&D) spending. The ASC remedies a perceived flaw with the previous R&D tax credit regime that excluded firms with high R&D intensities during their fixed-base periods and/or high sales in the previous four years from claiming a credit. We document a large increase in R&D tax credit eligibility following the enactment of the ASC and find that its effect on R&D spending was positive relative to firms not utilizing this new credit-calculation option. Specifically, we estimate that the ASC induced an additional $2.26 of R&D spending for every dollar of foregone tax revenue. These results provide evidence that the ASC has spurred R&D investment in a setting where firms have a choice between two credit-calculation methods.

Keywords: tax credits, research and development, tax incentives

JEL Classification: H25, H32, O31

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew and Lusch, Stephen J. and Cook, Kirsten A., The Effectiveness of the R&D Tax Credit: Evidence from the Alternative Simplified Credit (September 23, 2014). Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 37, Issue 1, pp. 157-182, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2506101
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,593
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies