Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Petroleum Taxation and Investment Behaviour

USAEE Research Paper Series 14-175

22 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2014

Petter Osmundsen

University of Stavanger; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Magne Emhjellen-Stendal

Petoro A.S.

Thore Johnsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Finance

Alexander G. Kemp

Aberdeen Centre for Research in Energy Economics and Finance, University of Aberdeen

Christian Riis

Norwegian Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 10, 2014

Abstract

Petroleum administration can be regarded as a principal-agent problem. The government allocates exploration and production rights to petroleum companies on behalf of the population. The government is the principal and the companies are agents. With the aim of capturing revenue for the state, the government devises a petroleum tax system which takes account of the investment decisions made by the companies, while acknowledging for the fact that the companies may report strategically to the government. An important issue is how tax deductions are to be treated in investment analysis. A discrepancy arises here between assumptions made in some areas of tax theory and the actual investment analyses conducted by the companies. Tax theory has given rise to discussion and controversial tax proposals for the petroleum sector in Norway, Denmark and Australia. It led, for example, to reductions in tax-related depreciation for the Norwegian petroleum industry in May 2013. The article reviews this tax debate and analyses the implications of basing tax design on counter-factual investment behaviour.

Keywords: petroleum taxation; tax design; valuation; corporate behaviour

JEL Classification: L71; F21; G02; H21; H25; H32; M21

Suggested Citation:

Osmundsen, Petter and Emhjellen-Stendal, Magne and Johnsen, Thore and Kemp, Alexander G. and Riis, Christian, Petroleum Taxation and Investment Behaviour (October 10, 2014). USAEE Research Paper Series 14-175, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2508477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2508477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Australia's Future Tax System Posted: 2009
E&P Investment Criteria and methodologies Posted: 2007
R A Brealey , S C Myers , Allen , F
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2008
M Emhjellen , Alaouze , C
Project Valuation When There are Two Cashflow Streams
Energy Economics , volume 24 , p. 455 - 467 Posted: 2002-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,924
RANK
281,840
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies