Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Status: Tax Treatment of Mixed Business and Personal Expenses

17 University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, 2015, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2014

Adi Libson

Bar-Ilan University - Faculty of Law; Van-Leer Institute

Date Written: October 21, 2014

Abstract

What is the proper tax treatment of mixed business and personal expenses? This question has much baffled legislators, courts and legal academics. This Article proposes a new approach to this question that justifies the strict elimination of any deduction for mixed expenditures. Namely, the tax code should seek to tax status itself, not merely to redistribute wealth or improve welfare. This Article argues that the social status that accompanies mixed expenses justifies eliminating the deduction and fully taxing the individual, regardless of whether the individuals actually benefits from the social status gained. The central justification for taxing social status is based on the theory of relational egalitarianism which calls for social policy to shift its focus from redistribution of resources and welfare, to the social relationships among individuals in society. Furthermore, the argument for taxing status has broader implications beyond the case of mixed expenditures: This Article therefore also addresses the tax treatment of fringe benefits, executive compensation, consumption of luxury goods, and charitable contributions.

Keywords: mixed expenditures, tax policy, social status, relational egalitarianism

JEL Classification: A12, A13, A14, D63, H20, H24, K34

Suggested Citation:

Libson, Adi, Taxing Status: Tax Treatment of Mixed Business and Personal Expenses (October 21, 2014). 17 University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, 2015, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
John David Colombo
The Marketing of Philanthropy and the Charitable Contributions Deduction
U Illinois Law & Economics Research Paper No. 00-11 Pages: 43 Posted: 5 Jan 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Integrating Theories for the Deduction and Tax Exemption, 36 WAKE FOREST L. REV , volume 657 Posted: 2001
Id
Rev
, p. 67 - 246
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,730
RANK
663,174
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bar-Ilan University Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies