Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Formula Apportionment Really Prevent Multinational Enterprises from Profit Shifting? – The Role of Asset Valuation, Intragroup Debt, and Leases

arqus Discussion Paper No. 175

37 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2014

Dirk Kiesewetter

University of Würzburg

Tobias Steigenberger

University of Würzburg

Matthias Stier

University of Würzburg

Date Written: September 30, 2014

Abstract

The European Commission has been supporting a transition from a system of separate accounting to a system of formula apportionment. In 2011, it presented a proposal for a council directive on a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB). Formula apportionment is often considered more resistant to profit shifting and assumed to reduce compliance costs. We use a dynamic model of tax accounting based on neoclassical investment theory and effective tax rates to determine whether, and to what extent, formula apportionment mitigates the efficiency of typical profit-shifting measures. We focus on the roles of transfer pricing and intragroup debt financing (through loans and leases) under both separate accounting and formula apportionment. Our results show that instead of eliminating tax planning strategies, the proposed system will simply induce a shift from manipulating reported profits to influencing the apportionment key. Inside the European Union, the CCCTB may be able to render thin capitalisation rules and transfer pricing documentation redundant. However, formula apportionment invites new forms of tax planning involving manipulating the book value of assets rather than profit shifting.

Keywords: Effective Tax Rate, CCCTB, Formula Apportionment, Tax Planning, Profit Shifting, Debt Financing, Leasing

JEL Classification: H20, F21, F23, D21

Suggested Citation:

Kiesewetter, Dirk and Steigenberger, Tobias and Stier, Matthias, Can Formula Apportionment Really Prevent Multinational Enterprises from Profit Shifting? – The Role of Asset Valuation, Intragroup Debt, and Leases (September 30, 2014). arqus Discussion Paper No. 175, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2512174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Regina Ortmann , Erich Pummerer
Distortional Effects of Separate Accounting and Formula Apportionment on Factor Allocation
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-28 · 38 Pages · Posted: 26 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 3 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 280
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Regina Ortmann , Caren Sureth-Sloane
Can the CCCTB alleviate tax discrimination against loss-making European multinational groups?
Journal of Business Economics , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 441 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Regina Ortmann
Uncertainty in Weighting Formulary Apportionment Factors and its Impact on After-Tax Income of Multinational Groups
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 10, Die Betriebswirtschaft 03/2015, 161-177 · 32 Pages · Posted: 25 Feb 2015 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2015 · Downloads: 170
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,488
RANK
361,062
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies