Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Three Hurdles of Tax Planning: How Business Context, Aims of Tax Planning, and Tax Manager Power Affect Tax Expense

Arqus Discussion Paper No. 176

46 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2014 Last revised: 30 Sep 2015

Anna Feller

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: September 29, 2015

Abstract

The question of why some companies pay fewer taxes than others is a widely investigated topic of interest. One of the well-known explanations is a phenomenon called tax avoidance. We develop a grounded theory model of influences on corporate tax planning through a series of 19 in-depth German tax expert interviews. Our research identifies three independent hurdles in the tax planning process, which can help to explain different levels of tax expense across companies. Those three hurdles sequentially address which tax planning methods are available (defined by business characteristics), desirable (given via aims of tax planning), and implementable (determined by tax manager power). A large part of previous research has estimated the influence of firm characteristics, which we incorporate in the broader term business characteristics, on tax expense, while the other influences that we identify have largely been left “out of the equation”. In the light of the current public debates on tax avoidance, we reveal two important findings: First, we find that companies vary widely in the aggressiveness of their aims of tax planning, which contrasts sharply with the picture often drawn by undifferentiated media reports. Second, tax managers can assume very different levels of power in their organization. The implementation of desirable tax planning methods varies depending on this level of tax manager power. In conclusion, our three-hurdle grounded theory provides generalizable insights into important influences on corporate tax planning which help to explain the observed variation in tax expenses across firms.

Keywords: tax planning; tax avoidance; manager power; Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)

JEL Classification: D22, H25, M12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feller, Anna and Schanz, Deborah, The Three Hurdles of Tax Planning: How Business Context, Aims of Tax Planning, and Tax Manager Power Affect Tax Expense (September 29, 2015). Arqus Discussion Paper No. 176, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2512177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
T Ahrens
Talking accounting: An ethnography of management knowledge in British and German brewers. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 617 - 637 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Stephan Alberternst , Caren Sureth-Sloane
Interest Barrier and Capital Structure Response
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-09 Pages: 53 Posted: 25 Feb 2015 Last revised: 1 Jun 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,404
RANK
184,099
4 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies