Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Value Added Tax on Revenue Generation in Nigeria

13 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2014

Olawale Luqman

Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU)

Date Written: June 20, 2014

Abstract

This research work studied the impact of value added tax on revenue generation in Nigeria. The study is aimed at the appraisal of revenue generation in Nigeria. Secondary data were used in this study, the data were collected from CBN statistical bulletin also gathered from journals and textbook that is related to the research topic, the study collected data from 1994 to 2012. The result of the analysis showed that that there is significant relationship between value added tax and consolidated revenue generation in Nigeria. At 5% level of significance, the F-statistics computed value is 1186.6 which is significant at 5% significant level, we accept the alternate hypothesis and conclude that there is significant relationship between value added tax and consolidated revenue generation in Nigeria. However, for Nigeria to attain its economic growth and development, she must be able to generate enough revenue in order to meet up with the challenges of her expenditures in term of provision of social amenities and the running costs of the Government. The result of this study indicates that if more goods and services are taxed, the revenue base of the country will increase. Also value added tax bases be widened to bring the informal sector into the value added tax net so as to stem possible evasion even by the so faithfully complying under the old rate.

Keywords: Value added tax, Revenue Generation, Petroleum profit tax, company income tax.

Suggested Citation:

Luqman, Olawale, The Impact of Value Added Tax on Revenue Generation in Nigeria (June 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2513207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2513207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
F Adgegbie , A S Fakile
Company Income Tax and Nigeria Economic Development‖ , volume 22 Posted: 2011
Crossref
O Adekanola
Taxation as a means of Economic Revitalization: Limitation and Prospects in a Developing Economy
Journal of the Institute of Chartered accountants of Nigeria , volume 40 , issue 4 Posted: 2007
S M Adesola
Tax Laws and Administration in Nigeria Posted: 2000
A Babington
): -Value Added Tax in Nigeria, Problems Sources and Prospects‖ second series of Seminar Lecture Lagos Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,784
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,486
RANK
6,696
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies