Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Credit-Card Information Reporting Improve Small-Business Tax Compliance?

57 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2014 Last revised: 23 Mar 2016

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Brett Collins

Government of the United States of America - Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Daniel Reck

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Michael Sebastiani

Government of the United States of America - Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the response of small businesses operating as sole proprietorships to Form 1099-K, an information report introduced in 2011 which provides the Internal Revenue Service with information about electronic sales. Theory and distributional analysis isolates affected taxpayers, who report receipts equal to or slightly exceeding the receipts reported on 1099-K. Information reporting made these taxpayers more likely to file a return declaring business income, and increased filers’ reported receipts by up to 24 percent. Taxpayers largely offset increased reported receipts with increased reported expenses, which do not face information reporting, diminishing the impact on reported net taxable income.

Keywords: Tax underreporting, information reporting, small businesses, tax enforcement, administrative data

JEL Classification: H20, H23, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Slemrod, Joel B. and Collins, Brett and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Reck, Daniel and Sebastiani, Michael, Does Credit-Card Information Reporting Improve Small-Business Tax Compliance? (October 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2515630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Caroline Bruckner
Shortchanged: The Tax Compliance Challenges of Small Business Operators Driving the On-Demand Platform Economy
24 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2016 · Last revised: 9 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 464
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,555
RANK
169,120
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies