Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Dividend Policy: The Muting Effect of Agency Issues and Shareholder Conflicts

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014 Last revised: 28 Jan 2017

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Roni Michaely

The University of Hong Kong; ECGI

Date Written: January 27, 2017

Abstract

Using proprietary data on the entire spectrum of ownership-structure and exact tax-status of investors and firms we examine how dividend taxation affects payout. Utilizing an exogenous shock to dividend taxation, we show that absent any frictions, dividend taxation has a large impact on payout. As agency issues and shareholder conflicts increase, owners’ tax-preferences have significantly smaller impact on payout. We identify three mechanisms that reduce the dividend-tax sensitivity: Coordination among owners, heterogeneity in tax preferences, and diverging objectives between managers and owners. Altogether, taxation has a first-order impact on payout, but agency issues and shareholder conflicts mute its impact substantially.

Keywords: Payout Policy, Dividend Taxes, Agency Costs, Ownership Structure

JEL Classification: G30, G35, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Martin and Michaely, Roni, Taxation and Dividend Policy: The Muting Effect of Agency Issues and Shareholder Conflicts (January 27, 2017). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2516927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2516927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,086
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,096
RANK
46,589
25 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies