Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Taxes a Determinant Factor in Earnings Management Behavior? Empirical Results from Brazilian Insurance Market

22 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2014

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo - School of Economics, Business and Accounting

Joelson Oliveira Sampaio

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Economics

George Sales

Mackenzie Presbyterian University; Fundação Instituto de Pesquisas Contábeis Atuáriais e Financeiras (FIPECAFI) - Faculdade FIPECAFI; Fundação Escola de Comércio Álvares Penteado (FECAP); University of São Paulo (USP) - Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA)

Date Written: November 11, 2014

Abstract

Earnings management is a special issue in accounting theory, and the main impact of the practice is the creation of biases in financial statements. More specifically, earnings management affect accounting profits, and consecutively affect stakeholders in their decisions. According to the specialized literature, earnings management is a practice considered feasible by companies when they glimpse incentives to perform it, and incentives to the practice can be established by different reasons, so one may reasonably believe that enforcements rules of the environment is a special stimulus to the practice. As an example, unequal tax-rules between economic sectors can stimulate the practice of earnings management. So, our purpose is to verify if the legal enforcement by the government authorities created incentives to the earnings management in Brazil. To test the hypothesis, we selected a sample-data composed by Brazilian insurance companies, since this sector suffered a considerable increase in the income-taxes rate in 2008, moving the global rate from 34% to 40% of the accounting profit. Our sample consisted in 2.431 firms-years observations, in 28 quarters between 2006 and 2012. The utilization of this specific group had other important motive: according to Brazilian tax regulatory system, technical provisions from insurance companies can be considered deductible from income taxes. To consider the situation, we created a panel data model with changes in the level of the specified accruals during the selected time and included control variables for a better model specification. The results showed a significant relationship between the increased tax rates and the measure of the technical provisions, showing evidences of earnings management behavior in this industry specifically in the period which the tax-rate was increased for this group of companies.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Tax Determinants, Brazilian Insurance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Flores, Eduardo and Sampaio, Joelson Oliveira and Sales, George, Are Taxes a Determinant Factor in Earnings Management Behavior? Empirical Results from Brazilian Insurance Market (November 11, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2523053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2523053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,332
RANK
345,859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies