Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Effects of Financial Derivatives on Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Nov 2014

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 11, 2014

Abstract

This study estimates the corporate tax savings from financial derivatives. I document a 3.6 and 4.4 percentage point reduction in three-year current and cash effective tax rates (ETRs), respectively, after a firm initiates a derivatives program. The decline in cash ETR equates to $10.69 million in tax savings for the average firm and $4.0 billion for the entire sample of 375 new derivatives users. Of these amounts, $8.75 million and $3.3 billion, respectively, are incremental to tax savings that theory suggests are a byproduct of risk management. Collectively, these findings provide economic insight into the prevalence of derivatives-based tax avoidance.

Keywords: financial instruments, derivatives, tax avoidance, effective tax rate

JEL Classification: G32, H25, M40

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P., The Economic Effects of Financial Derivatives on Corporate Tax Avoidance (November 11, 2014). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2523084
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,851
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies