Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Tax Aggressiveness

25 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2014

Tao Zeng

Wilfrid Laurier University - Lazaridis School of Business and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 20, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between directors' and officers’ liability insurance (D&O insurance) and tax aggressiveness. Using large Canadian public companies listed on TSX300 and relying on several proxies for tax aggressiveness including GAAP and cash effective tax rates and the book-tax difference, I find that D&O insurance exhibits a strong negative relationship with the GAAP effective tax rates and a relatively moderate positive relationship with the book-tax difference, but there is no evidence that the D&O insurance is associated with the cash effective tax rates. I interpret these results as indicating that D&O insurance reduces the tax expenses reported in the financial statements but not the actual tax paid. In other words, the D&O liability insurance contributes to financial tax management but not to cash tax savings.

Keywords: directors' and officers’ liability insurance (D&O insurance), tax aggressiveness, GAAP and cash effective tax rates, book-tax difference

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Zeng, Tao, Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Tax Aggressiveness (November 20, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2528591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2528591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Political policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: Longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentive for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
Does private equity ownership affect tax reporting aggressiveness? Working paper
Harvard Business School Accounting and Management Unit Posted: 2009
T Baker , S Griffith
Ensuring Corporate Misconduct: How Liability Insurance Undermines Shareholder Litigation Posted: 2010
Load more
3 Citations
Rongli Yuan , Jian Sun , Feng Cao
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Corporate Innovation
47 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 24 Apr 2019 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dain C. Donelson , Brian Monsen , Christopher Yust
U.S. Evidence from D&O Insurance on Accounting-Related Agency Costs: Implications for Country-Specific Studies
Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 6 (2), pp. 63-87, Fall 2021 · 49 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 12 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dongmin Kong , Xiandong Yang , Yuliang Zhao
Top Managers’ Liability Insurance and Firms’ Environmental Information Disclosure: Evidence from China
43 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 40
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,341
RANK
166,710
3 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies