Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risky Business: The Prosopography of Corporate Tax Planning

National Tax Journal, Vol. 67, No. 4, 2014

31 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2014

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Gary A. McGill

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Edmund Outslay

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

We trace the history of corporate tax planning from a compliance-focused activity to a profit-enhancing endeavor to a risk management center. Tax directors of U.S. multinational corporations face unprecedented global pressures from taxing jurisdictions seeking to increase their share of the enterprise’s worldwide taxes. Increasingly, corporations must consider the risks that a tax strategy will impose on them, not only in terms of potential lost revenue, but also in terms of reputation and market share. We discuss the components of tax risk management in today’s global environment and speculate how future corporate tax planning will change in light of the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project.

Keywords: corporate tax, tax avoidance, book-tax differences, accounting for income taxes

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and McGill, Gary A. and Outslay, Edmund, Risky Business: The Prosopography of Corporate Tax Planning (December 1, 2014). National Tax Journal, Vol. 67, No. 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
John L Abernathy , A Stephan , Eric T Davenport , Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock Price Reaction and Economic Consequences
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin
Defining and Measuring Tax Planning Aggressiveness
National Tax Journal , volume 67 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Jennifer L Blouin , Cristi Gleason , Lillian Mills , Stephanie Sikes
What Can We Learn about Uncertain Tax Benefits from FIN 48?
National Tax Journal , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 521 - 535 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Jennifer L Blouin , Leslie A Robinson
Insights from Academic Participation in the FAF's Initial PIR: The PIR of FIN 48
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 500 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
680
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,081
RANK
87,832
8 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies