Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Holidays on Renewable Energy Project Developments in China: A Cost Benefit Analysis

Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 270 - 285, August 2013

21 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2014

Eva Huang

University of Sydney Business School - Discipline of Business Law

Nicholas Underwood

Independent

Date Written: August 6, 2013

Abstract

In recent years the Chinese economy has moved away from a carbon intensive economy towards an economy that relies increasingly on renewable energy. While this has been most evident with respect to hydro development, it can also been seen in increases in energy produced by solar and wind projects. This increase has been largely as a result of government intervention and through the offering of incentives from 2005 through to the present.

This article seeks to assess the influence of the government policy of allowing a 6 year tax holiday for specified high technology renewable energy projects. It will firstly discuss how this tax holiday incentivizes investment when financial managers consider project options before attempting to appreciate some of the wide ranging implications of intervention and distortion in the market.

This is done by analysing the methods of cost benefit analysis used in public finance and showing the impacts of tax holidays on this decision-making process. As a result, this paper shows that there are significant limitations in project evaluation undertaken in public finance due to the common practice of only weighing up prospects from the first five years of a project during its evaluation.

This is problematic as a project may have negative cash flows associated with decommissioning at a later date, which has been seen in early generation wind farms and other renewable projects such as nuclear projects in particular This paper concludes by discussing the intention of tax holidays and the distortions that occur in an economy as a result of their implementation; this analysis clearly shows that this distortion may be exacerbated by limitations in public finance valuation.

As a result, this paper shows that government intervention boosts investment; however, it distorts rational financial participants and can lead to over-investment if limited financial analysis is undertaken.

Keywords: Tax Holiday, Renewable Energy

JEL Classification: D6, H2, K34, H3

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Eva and Underwood, Nicholas, The Impact of Tax Holidays on Renewable Energy Project Developments in China: A Cost Benefit Analysis (August 6, 2013). Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 270 - 285, August 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
RANK
576,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies