Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Reliably Do Empirical Tests Identify Tax Avoidance?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 200

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-5

41 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2014 Last revised: 23 Sep 2019

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Jordan Nickerson

University of Washington - Department of Finance and Business Economics

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 27, 2019

Abstract

Research on the determinants of tax avoidance have relied on tests using GAAP and cash effective tax rates (ETRs) and total and permanent book-tax differences (BTDs). Two new proxies have emerged that overcome documented limitations of these proxies: one, developed by Henry and Sansing (2018), allows for more meaningful interpretation of results estimated in samples that include loss observations. The other, reserves for unrecognized tax benefits (UTB), provides new data on tax uncertainty. We offer empirical evidence on how well tests using these new proxies perform relative to those extensively used in prior research. The paper finds that tests using the proxy developed by Henry and Sansing (2018) have lower power relative to those using other proxies across all samples, including a sample that includes loss observations. In contrast, when firms accrue reserves for uncertain tax avoidance, tests using the current year addition to the UTB have the highest power across all proxies, samples, and levels of reserves. In the absence of reserves, tests using the GAAP ETR best detect uncertain tax avoidance, on average. This study contributes to the literature by using a controlled environment to provide the first large-scale empirical evidence on how the power of tests varies with the use of relatively new proxies, the inclusion of loss observations, and the advent of FIN 48.

Keywords: tax avoidance, effective tax rates, book-tax differences, simulated data

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Nickerson, Jordan and Seidman, Jeri K. and Stomberg, Bridget, How Reliably Do Empirical Tests Identify Tax Avoidance? (July 27, 2019). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 200, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2534058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2534058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
Incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Audit Analytics
Briefing. Available Posted: 2008-03-22
Chelsea Rae Austin
Analysis of Stock Option Tax Benefits on the Cash Effective Tax Rate
Pages: 62 Posted: 22 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Badertscher , S Katz , S Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Brad A. Badertscher , Sharon P. Katz , Sonja O. Rego , Ryan J. Wilson
Conforming Tax Avoidance and Capital Market Pressure
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 67 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 1,494
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Casey M. Schwab , Bridget Stomberg , Junwei Xia
What determines ETRs? The relative influence of tax and other factors
Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-92 · 50 Pages · Posted: 26 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 2 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 735
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xuan (Sean) Sun , Ahsan Habib
Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Provided Tax Services: A Systematic Review of the International Literature
61 Pages · Posted: 7 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,114
RANK
38,689
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies