Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Benefits from the Preferential Treatment of Business Property under the German Inheritance Tax?

Journal of Business Economics, 86, p. 997-1041

Posted: 9 Dec 2014 Last revised: 10 Nov 2016

Benedikt Franke

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Dirk Simons

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Dennis Voeller

TBS Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper contributes to the recent debate on the tax privilege for business property introduced by the German Inheritance Tax Act of 2009. We shed light on the tax effects of the preferential treatment based on micro-level data of realized business transfers from the German Inheritance Tax Statistic. As the tax exemptions are tied to employment expenses of the transferred business, we combine information from the tax statistic with a simulation of future employment expenses. We then compare the effective tax rates under a preferential treatment to the ones under a non-preferential treatment alternative. Results show that a large portion of business successions is untaxed under the current German inheritance tax law and that average effective tax rates approach zero. Moreover, the preferential treatment levels the differences between the effective taxation of small and large transfers and leads to an almost equal effective tax rate across all tax brackets. We also demonstrate that tax reductions are considerably larger in times of economic growth where the requirements for a preferential treatment are more likely to be met.

Keywords: Business transfers, Inheritance tax, Preferential tax treatment, Simulation

JEL Classification: C15, H30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Franke, Benedikt and Simons, Dirk and Voeller, Dennis, Who Benefits from the Preferential Treatment of Business Property under the German Inheritance Tax? (December 1, 2016). Journal of Business Economics, 86, p. 997-1041, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2535706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2535706
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,055
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies