Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Holdings, Tax Repatriation Costs and Market Uncertainty

Posted: 12 Dec 2014

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Elisabetta Ipino

Concordia University, Quebec

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: December 10, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we develop and test the hypothesis that tax repatriation costs increase the uncertainty embedded in cash holdings. The intuition behind our empirical prediction relies on the notion that tax repatriation costs are a strong indication that part of the cash is not available to shareholders but is trapped abroad. Using a large sample of U.S. firms during the 1991-2012 period and an array of proxies for market uncertainty, we find evidence consistent with our hypothesis. Specifically, we document that the interaction of cash holdings with tax repatriation costs decreases the precision of analysts’ forecasts and generates differential belief revisions among investors. These findings help shed light on the implications and on the economic consequences of cash holdings and offer support to the SEC’s recent effort to encourage companies to increase disclosure of their cash holdings.

Keywords: Cash, Taxes, Repatriation, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: G30, G38, H25

Suggested Citation:

Fabrizi, Michele and Ipino, Elisabetta and Parbonetti, Antonio, Cash Holdings, Tax Repatriation Costs and Market Uncertainty (December 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2536467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2536467
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies