Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Inclusion of General Counsel in Top Management and Tax Avoidance

63 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2014 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: July 8, 2015

Abstract

We examine whether the inclusion of general counsel in top management is associated with a firm’s tax avoidance. We find that firms with general counsel as part of the top management team have lower GAAP effective tax rate, more uncertain tax positions, a higher likelihood of engaging in tax shelter activities, and more tax haven countries in which the firm reports a significant subsidiary, relative to firms without a general counsel in top management. In addition, we find that among firms with general counsel in top management, tax avoidance is greater when (1) the general counsel has tax-related expertise, (2) the firm hires an external auditor with tax expertise or purchases more tax services from its external auditor, and (3) the CEO has more power over the general counsel.

Keywords: Top management composition, general counsel, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G34; G38; H26; M41

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Beng Wee and Lee, Jimmy and Ng, Jeffrey, The Inclusion of General Counsel in Top Management and Tax Avoidance (July 8, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Patrick Badolato , Dain C. Donelson , Matthew Ege
Audit Committee Financial Expertise and Earnings Management: The Role of Status
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming Posted: 7 Oct 2013 Last revised: 29 Aug 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C E Bagley
Winning legally: The value of legal astuteness
Management Review , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 378 - 390 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,012
RANK
162,121
5 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies