Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collecting Unpaid Tax Offshore: Caribbean Tax Havens and Foreign Direct Investment in China

Bulletin of International Taxation, Vol. 12, 2014

12 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2014

Dongmei Qiu

Xiamen University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 25, 2014

Abstract

This article analyzes the role of Caribbean tax havens in China’s FDI and the evolutionary development since the mid 1990s. The round-trip scheme adopted by Chinese investors is given particular attention. It then discusses the increasingly strict tax measures adopted by China to counter the widespread use of the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands to avoid tax in relation to offshore business since 2008 and recent developments in 2014. These measures range from residence rule, general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR), to the increasingly stringent requirements of tax reporting on outbound investment. The article concludes with the discussion on whether the shares of Caribbean Tax Havens in China’s FDI will diminish or increase.

Keywords: round-trip scheme, residence rule, general anti-avoidance rule, controlled foreign company rule

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Dongmei, Collecting Unpaid Tax Offshore: Caribbean Tax Havens and Foreign Direct Investment in China (September 25, 2014). Bulletin of International Taxation, Vol. 12, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Record-filing on Overseas Investment Projects, NDRC Order 9 Posted: 2014-04-08
Crossref
SAFE, Foreign Exchange Administration over the Overseas Investment and Financing and Round-trip Investment by Domestic Residents via SPEs, Huifa Posted: 2014-07-04
Crossref
SPE refers to a foreign enterprise directly established by or indirectly controlled by a domestic resident, including a domestic entity and a domestic individual through any assets, rights or interests of domestic enterprises, or through any overseas assets, rights or interests legally held by such domestic residents for the purposes of investing and financing Posted: 2014
SAFE Circular 37 [2014] expands this purpose to include offshore investment. This makes it possible for a domestic resident to set up an SPE for investment purposes without any future intention to list overseas or to be used as a vehicle for any other financing plan. For more discussion on this, see Jones Day, Commentary: SAFE' s New Circular 37 Enhances and Facilitates Round-trip Investment Registration in PRC
the purpose of SPVs was limited to obtaining offshore financing , volume 37 Posted: 2014-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,074
RANK
307,614
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies