Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility, Tax Avoidance, and Earnings Performance

Journal of the American Taxation Association 37 (2): 1-21, 2015

Posted: 20 Dec 2014 Last revised: 15 Apr 2016

Luke Watson

Villanova University

Date Written: December 12, 2014

Abstract

I investigate the influence of pretax earnings performance on the relation between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and tax avoidance. Prior studies of the relation between CSR and tax avoidance find mixed results. Based on slack resource theory (Penrose 1959), I predict and find that the relation between CSR and tax avoidance is moderated by earnings performance. The evidence shows that a lack of social responsibility is positively associated with tax avoidance in firms with low current or future earnings performance, but this effect is diminished when current or future earnings performance is high. There is some evidence that corporate social responsibility is positively associated with tax avoidance when current or future earnings performance is low, but again, the effect disappears when current or future earnings performance is high. Overall, my results suggest that attention to the demands of non-shareholder stakeholders is curtailed when firms face scarce resources.

Keywords: tax avoidance, corporate social responsibility, earnings, effective tax rate

JEL Classification: M14, M4, H2

Suggested Citation:

Watson, Luke, Corporate Social Responsibility, Tax Avoidance, and Earnings Performance (December 12, 2014). Journal of the American Taxation Association 37 (2): 1-21, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540328
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,749
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies