Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting Taxes: New Evidence from Analysts

Accounting Review, Vol. 92, No. 3, p. 1-29, 2017

Posted: 20 Dec 2014 Last revised: 10 Dec 2017

Brian Bratten

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Stephannie Larocque

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: July 7, 2016

Abstract

We provide new evidence about how analysts incorporate and improve on management ETR forecasts. Quarterly ETR reporting under the integral method provides mandatory point-estimate forecasts by management, but firms must record certain “discrete” tax items fully in the quarter they occur, polluting these forecasts. We investigate management ETR accuracy, analysts’ decisions to mimic management’s estimate, analysts’ accuracy relative to each other or to management, and dispersion. Our comprehensive analysis reveals analysts deviate from management more and are more accurate relative to management as complexity increases, with real effects on EPS accuracy and dispersion. In contrast to prior research that analysts ignore or are confused by taxes, we provide evidence that analysts pay attention to taxes and improve on management estimates. Based on our evidence that management’s quarterly ETRs have less predictive value in the presence of discrete items, we suggest standard-setters re-examine the discrete item exception to require more disclosure.

Keywords: Analysts, Income tax, ETR forecasts, Accuracy, Dispersion, Integral method

JEL Classification: G29, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bratten, Brian and Gleason, Cristi A. and Larocque, Stephannie A. and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F., Forecasting Taxes: New Evidence from Analysts (July 7, 2016). Accounting Review, Vol. 92, No. 3, p. 1-29, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2540644
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,360
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies