Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Regulatory Scrutiny on Tax Avoidance: An Examination of SEC Comment Letters

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Dec 2014 Last revised: 2 Mar 2016

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the tax avoidance behavior of firms prior to the issuance, and following the resolution, of SEC tax comment letters. We find that firms that appear to engage in greater tax avoidance are more likely to receive a tax-related SEC comment letter. We also find that firms receiving a tax-related SEC comment letter, relative to firms receiving a non-tax comment letter, subsequently decrease their tax avoidance behavior consistent with an increase in expected tax costs. Additionally, we document evidence consistent with other firms that do not receive a comment letter reacting to multiple publicly disclosed tax-related comment letters within their industry by lowering their reported GAAP ETR, consistent with an indirect effect of regulatory scrutiny on certain types of tax avoidance.

Keywords: tax avoidance, SEC comment letters, regulatory scrutiny

JEL Classification: H25, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Lynch, Dan and Mayberry, Michael and Omer, Thomas C., The Effects of Regulatory Scrutiny on Tax Avoidance: An Examination of SEC Comment Letters (March 1, 2016). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2541035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2541035
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies