Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Debt as an Indicator of Companies’ Default: The Case of Slovakia

Kubicová, J., Faltus, S. (2014). Tax Debt as an Indicator of Companies’ Default: the Case of Slovakia. Journal of Applied Economics and Business, Vol 2, No. 4, 59-74.

16 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2014 Last revised: 20 Jan 2015

Jana Kubicova

University of Economics in Bratislava

Slavomír Faltus

University of Economics (Slovakia)

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Scientific literature has proposed a number of indicators that are successful in predicted future of company’s default. Our study is focused to enrich of the literature by presenting data on the potential tax liability as a warning sign of future company’s default. Using the Receiver Operating Characteristic of curves and the values of Area Under Curve we measure and compare the resolution of the twelve ratio indicators that have in numerator the accounting data on income tax. From the twelve indicators, we have used three with the best-resolution as independent variables in the hazard multi-period logit model of prediction of company’s default. The research was done on the data of failed and healthy companies that are included in the financial statements from 82,572 companies in the Slovak Republic for the period 2003-2012. We found that although the best ratio indicators with income tax were ranked in terms of their distinctive capabilities in the first half of selected 49 benchmark indicators, they does not include the best under this criterion. However in terms of accuracy of prediction model, fiscal indicators came through better than indicators with the best resolution. Therefore, it is not possible to say that which model is better. It depends on what criterion is evaluated. The possibility of using tax indicators is thus a matter of the required characteristics of the model.

Keywords: Bankruptcy prediction; Tax accounting variables; Ability of resolution; ROC curves; Hazard multi-period logit model

JEL Classification: G33, H25, B23

Suggested Citation:

Kubicova, Jana and Faltus, Slavomír, Tax Debt as an Indicator of Companies’ Default: The Case of Slovakia (2014). Kubicová, J., Faltus, S. (2014). Tax Debt as an Indicator of Companies’ Default: the Case of Slovakia. Journal of Applied Economics and Business, Vol 2, No. 4, 59-74., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2543257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2543257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Alford , P Berger
The Role of Taxes, Financial Reporting, and Other Market Imperfections in Structuring Divisive Reorganizations Posted: 1998
F Allen , R Michaely
Payout Policy Posted: 2001
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress and Bankruptcy: A Complete Guide to Predicting and Avoiding Distress and Profiting from Bankruptcy Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
RANK
580,215
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies