Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does U.S. Foreign Earnings Lockout Advantage Foreign Acquirers?

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2550819

48 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2015 Last revised: 17 Jun 2017

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: May 5, 2017

Abstract

Prior research has documented a substantial “lockout” effect resulting from the current U.S. worldwide tax and financial reporting systems. We hypothesize that foreign firms are tax- favored acquirers because they can avoid the U.S. tax on repatriations. Consistent with this tax advantage, we find that U.S. domiciled M&A target firms with greater locked-out earnings are more likely to be acquired by foreign than domestic acquirers. This effect is economically significant; a standard deviation increase in our proxy for locked-out earnings is associated with a 12% relative increase in the likelihood that an acquirer is foreign. As the tax advantages for a foreign firm acquiring a U.S. target with locked-out earnings are even greater when the foreign firm operates under a territorial tax system, we also compare their home country tax system. We find that foreign acquirers of U.S. target firms with locked-out earnings are indeed more likely to be residents of countries that use territorial tax systems.

Keywords: Taxes, International, Acquisitions

JEL Classification: F23, G34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Edwards, Alexander S. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Does U.S. Foreign Earnings Lockout Advantage Foreign Acquirers? (May 5, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2550819, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2550819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2550819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspective , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
B Ayers , C Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: the magnitude and determinants of undisclosed permanently reinvested earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Andrew Bird
Domestic Taxes and Inbound Acquisitions
Pages: 50 Posted: 8 Jul 2015 Last revised: 18 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Black , T Carnes , T Jandik , B Henderson
The relevance of target accounting quality to the long-term success of cross-border mergers
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 139 - 168 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,395
RANK
135,862
7 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies