Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Firm Life Cycle Explain the Propensity for Firms to Engage in Corporate Tax Avoidance?

2015 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

1 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2015

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Grant Richardson

Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Date Written: January 24, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the association between firm life cycle stages and corporate tax avoidance employing the Dickinson (2011) model of firms’ life cycle stages. Based on a large dataset of U.S. publicly listed firms over the 1987–2013 period, we find that compared to the shake-out stage of a firm’s life cycle, tax avoidance is significantly negatively associated with the growth and maturity stages, and significantly positively associated with the introduction and decline stages of a firm’s life cycle. In fact, we observe a U-shaped pattern in tax avoidance outcomes across the life cycle, consistent with the predictions of both dynamic resource-based dependence and agency theory. Finally, our results are robust to alternative measures of tax avoidance and firms’ life cycle stages.

Keywords: life cycle; tax avoidance; resource-based dependence theory; agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Taylor, Grantley and Richardson, Grant, Does Firm Life Cycle Explain the Propensity for Firms to Engage in Corporate Tax Avoidance? (January 24, 2015). 2015 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2554952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2554952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
409,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies