Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Planning of R&D Intensive Multinationals

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-114

46 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2015

Jost H. Heckemeyer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Kiel - Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences

Katharina Richter

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: November 17, 2014

Abstract

The allocation of management and control in the business decision process finds expression in the coordination intensity between agents in the firm. We develop and test a theory, based on the organizational design literature, for the intensity in which the tax department strives to coordinate with managers from other business units in order to intervene in investment decisions. Our theoretical considerations predict that R&D intensity is an important determinant of the tax department's role. Using data from a confidential survey taken in 2012 of top financial and tax managers of very large multinational companies, representing 8% of business R&D spending in the OECD, we indeed find supporting evidence that in R&D intensive multinational firms the tax department operates more as a controller than as a manager. In particular, tax departments of R&D intensive firms make less tax planning effort, are less ambitious to minimize the tax burden of the firm, are later involved in the decision-making process of a new investment project, but are more likely to have a veto right in the decision on a new investment project as compared to less R&D intensive firms. Conditional on R&D intensity, however, the level of intangible assets in the firm is associated with more tax planning efforts and ambitions. Our results are statistically significant and robust towards several sensitivity checks.

Keywords: corporate taxation, organizational design, survey data

JEL Classification: H25, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Richter, Katharina and Spengel, Christoph, Tax Planning of R&D Intensive Multinationals (November 17, 2014). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-114, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2557353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2557353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
L Abramovsky , R Griffith , G Macartney , H Miller
The Location of Innovative Activity in Europe
The Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) Working Paper Posted: 2008
J Aldrich , F Nelson
Linear probability, Logit, and Probit Models Posted: 1984
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-Family Ownership and Firm Performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Angrist
Estimation of limited dependent variable models with dummy endogenous regressors: simple strategies for empirical practice
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 29 , p. 2 - 15 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,739
RANK
318,636
2 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies