Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance

70 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2015 Last revised: 21 Oct 2018

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 17, 2018

Abstract

This study provides the first large-sample evidence on the economic tax effects of special purpose entities (SPEs). These increasingly common organizational structures facilitate corporate tax savings by enabling sponsor-firms to increase tax-advantaged activities and/or enhance their tax efficiency (i.e., relative tax savings of a given activity). Using path analysis, we find that SPEs facilitate greater tax avoidance, such that an economically large amount of cash tax savings from research and development (R&D), depreciable assets, net operating loss carryforwards, intangible assets, foreign operations, and tax havens occur within SPEs. We estimate that SPEs facilitate over $330 billion of incremental cash tax savings, or roughly 6% of total U.S. federal corporate income tax collections during 1997-2016. Interaction analyses reveal that SPEs enhance the tax efficiency of R&D and intangibles by 87.5% and 61.5%, respectively. Overall, these findings provide economic insight into complex organizational structures facilitating corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: organizational structure, special purpose entity, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H25, L22, M40

Suggested Citation:

Demere, Paul and Donohoe, Michael P. and Lisowsky, Petro, The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance (October 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2557752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2557752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
European Network , Debt , Development (eurodad)
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT: DIRECTORATE GENERAL FOR INTERNAL POLICIES
Offshore Activities and Money Laundering: Recent Findings and Challenges Posted: 2016
M ; J Feng , Gramlich; And S , Gupta
Special Purpose Vehicles: Empirical Evidence on Determinants and Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 6 , p. 1833 - 1876 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -An Interpretation of ARB No. 51
FASB. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (FASB) , volume 46 Posted: 2003
T Forbes , And R , Sharma
Getting Tax Value from Intangibles and SPVs
International Tax Review , volume 19 , issue 9 , p. 16 - 17 Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
David A. Guenther , Steven R. Matsunaga , Brian M. Williams
Is Tax Avoidance Related to Firm Risk?
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 1 , p. 115 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Thomas Sigler , Kirsten Martinus , Iacopo Iacopini , Ben Derudder
The role of tax havens and offshore financial centres in shaping corporate geographies: an industry sector perspective
Regional Studies , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 621 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Terry Shevlin
Discussion of “Target's Tax Shelter Participation and Takeover Premiums”
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 1473 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
948
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,800
RANK
44,921
3 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies