Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Corporate Tax Bases Changes When Corporate Tax Rates Change? With Implications for the Tax Rate Elasticity of Corporate Revenues

44 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2015 Last revised: 30 Aug 2015

Laura Kawano

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: August 29, 2015

Abstract

We construct a new database of extensive margin changes to multiple aspects of corporate tax bases for OECD countries between 1980 and 2004. We use our data to systematically document the tendency of countries to implement policies that both lower the corporate tax rate and broaden the corporate tax base. This correlation informs our interpretation of previous estimates of the relationship between corporate tax rates and corporate tax revenues, which typically do not include comprehensive measures of the corporate tax base definition. We then re-examine the relationship between corporate tax rates and corporate tax revenues. We find that accounting for unobserved heterogeneity attenuates the relationship between corporate tax rates and corporate tax revenues, and increases the implied revenue-maximizing tax rate. Controlling for our new tax base measures does not substantively impact the magnitude of this relationship.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, Corporate tax revenues

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Kawano, Laura and Slemrod, Joel B., How Do Corporate Tax Bases Changes When Corporate Tax Rates Change? With Implications for the Tax Rate Elasticity of Corporate Revenues (August 29, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2559858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2559858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Taxpayer Responses to Competitive Tax Policies and Tax Policy Responses to Competitive Taxpayers: Recent Evidence
Tax Notes International , volume 34 , p. 1349 - 1362 Posted: 2004
Johannes Becker , Clemens Fuest
Optimal Tax Policy when Firms are Internationally Mobile
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 18 , p. 580 - 604 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin , Harry Huizinga , Luc A. Laeven , Gaetan Nicodeme
Thin Capitalization Rules and Multinational Firm Capital Structure
CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-007 Pages: 48 Posted: 16 Jan 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alex Brill , Kevin Hassett
Revenue-Maximizing Corporate Income Taxes: The Laffer Curve in OECD Countries Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,904
RANK
215,996
8 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies