Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Burden of Corporate Income Tax Borne by Labour Through Reduced Wage Rates or Labour Hours, Resulting in a Lower Cost of Labour to the Firm?

Asian Economic and Financial Review, 2013, 3(10):1281-1288

8 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2015

Desmond Tutu Ayentimi

University of Tasmania

Frank Osei-Yaw

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 3, 2015

Abstract

Shareholders ability to shift the burden of the tax to the consumer or labour depends largely on the mobility of capital. If the investor can move from the corporate sector into the non corporate sector, the laws of supply and demand will cause some of the burden of the corporate income tax to be borne by others. The aim of this paper is to find out whether the burden of the corporate income tax may be borne by labour through reduced wage rates or labour hours, resulting in a lower cost of labour to the firm, using ten (10) years financial data from ten firms listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange. The result provides evidence that part of the tax burden is shifted backwards to labour. Both the actual and adjusted data used in the model confirmed the alternate hypothesis. The result also demonstrated that a 1% increment in the corporate tax would result in 11% fall in the burden of the tax on labour.

Suggested Citation:

Ayentimi, Desmond Tutu and Osei-Yaw, Frank, Does the Burden of Corporate Income Tax Borne by Labour Through Reduced Wage Rates or Labour Hours, Resulting in a Lower Cost of Labour to the Firm? (February 3, 2015). Asian Economic and Financial Review, 2013, 3(10):1281-1288, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2559622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2559622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R F Alison
Do state corporate income taxes reduce wages, federal reserve bank of kansas city. Economic Review Posted: 2009
J G Ballentine
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research. Citizens for Tax Justice, 1985. Corporate taxpayers &corporate freeloaders Posted: 1980
C J Gravelle
Corporate tax incidence: A review of general equilibrium estimates and analysis Posted: 2010-05
Crossref
C J Gravelle
Corporate tax incidence: A review of empirical estimates and analysis Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,360
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies