Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Large Tax Settlement Favorability on Firms' Subsequent Tax Avoidance

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Feb 2015 Last revised: 21 Dec 2018

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: September 12, 2018

Abstract

I consider how large tax settlements compare to management expectations and then test how the favorability of a resolution (from the firm’s perspective) affects subsequent tax avoidance. Using unrecognized tax benefit information disclosed in firms’ tax footnote, pursuant to FIN 48, I develop and validate a measure of large tax settlement favorability. I find that firms with relatively favorable settlements subsequently increase their tax avoidance but that firms with relatively unfavorable settlements do not change their behavior. The implication is that favorable settlements inform management of weak tax monitoring or opportunities to avoid taxes. In additional analysis, I find that increasingly unfavorable settlements are positively associated with the likelihood of a tax-related restatement announcement. Overall, these findings illustrate how tax settlement favorability has reporting consequences for both subsequent tax returns and the financial statements.

Keywords: tax enforcement, tax avoidance, FIN 48

JEL Classification: H26, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew, The Impact of Large Tax Settlement Favorability on Firms' Subsequent Tax Avoidance (September 12, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2564892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2564892
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies