Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetric Incidence of Sales Taxes: A Short-Run Investigation of Gasoline Prices

Journal of Economics and Business, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2015 Last revised: 13 May 2018

Hakan Yilmazkuday

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 19, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the shifting of sales taxes to consumers through retail prices in the short run. Retail data on gasoline prices are used at the station level within the U.S., including observations from all fifty states and the District of Columbia. A difference-in-differences approach is employed to identify the short-run effects of the changes in state taxes as of January 1st, 2015, when five states have increased their gasoline sales taxes, while five other states have decreased theirs. States experiencing such changes in sales taxes (between December 31st, 2014 and January 1st, 2015) are analyzed as the treatment group of a natural policy experiment, where the control group consists of states with no changes in their sales taxes. The results show that both sales-tax increases and decreases are under-shifted to consumer prices, although the under-shifting of sales-tax decreases is much higher (i.e., the asymmetric incidence of sales taxes). The pass-through measures also differ significantly across states, showing the importance of having a nationwide analysis. The results are robust to the consideration of retailer characteristics, wholesale prices, retail brand effects and hourly price changes within each day.

Keywords: Tax Incidence; Gasoline Prices; Gas-Station Level Analysis

JEL Classification: H22, H73

Suggested Citation:

Yilmazkuday, Hakan, Asymmetric Incidence of Sales Taxes: A Short-Run Investigation of Gasoline Prices (March 19, 2017). Journal of Economics and Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2566042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2566042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R Abrantes-Metz , L Froeb , J Geweke , C Taylor
A variance screen for collusion
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 24 , p. 467 - 486 Posted: 2006
Crossref
James Alm , Edward Sennoga , Mark Skidmore
Perfect competition, urbanicity, and tax incidence in the retail gasoline market
Economic Inquiry , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 118 - 134 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Amiti , O Itskhoki , J Konings
Importers, exporters, and exchange rate disconnect
The American Economic Review , volume 104 , issue 7 , p. 1942 - 1978 Posted: 2014
Crossref
L Bachmeier , J Gri¢ N
New evidence on asymmetric gasoline price responses
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 772 - 77 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
592,728
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies