Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Territorial and Worldwide Systems of International Taxation

34 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2015

Kimberly A. Clausing

UCLA School of Law; Peterson Institute for International Economics

Date Written: February 20, 2015

Abstract

The dialogue regarding the international taxation of multinational firms should move beyond the rhetoric of comparing supposedly territorial and worldwide systems of taxation. Among major countries, there are no pure territorial or pure worldwide systems, just systems that lie on a spectrum between these extremes. Once one recognizes the characteristics that determine where on the spectrum particular countries lie, it is far from clear that purportedly worldwide countries are further to the “pure worldwide” end of the spectrum than are many purportedly territorial countries. Still, along the spectrum, tradeoffs between “competitiveness” and efficient capital allocation (with attendant effects on the home country tax base) are inevitable. Thus, I describe international tax system design proposals that might transcend this tradeoff, examining several such options. Finally, I discuss the current efforts of the BEPS process.

Suggested Citation:

Clausing, Kimberly A., Beyond Territorial and Worldwide Systems of International Taxation (February 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2567952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Where Will They Go If We Go Territorial? Dividend Exemption and the Location Decisions of U.S. Multinational Corporations
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , p. 787 - 809 Posted: 2001
Crossref
---
Formula Apportionment: Is It Better Than the Current System and Are There Better Alternatives
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 84 Posted: 2010
Rosanne Altshuler , Stephen E. Shay , Eric J. Toder
Lessons the United States Can Learn from Other Countries’ Territorial Systems for Taxing Income of Multinational Corporations
Pages: 57 Posted: 30 Jan 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian J Arnold
A Comparative Perspective on the U.S. Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules
Tax Law Review , volume 65 , p. 473 - 504
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
826
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,489
RANK
68,121
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies