Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Local Taxpayers Compliance in Paying Restaurant Taxes (Studies in Cilacap City)

24 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2015

Prasetyo Pambudi

Jenderal Soedirman University

Yanuar Restianto

Jenderal Soedirman University

Widya Hayu WK

Jenderal Soedirman University

Date Written: February 4, 2015

Abstract

This study purposed to examine the effect of tax knowledge, awareness of the taxpayer, and tax penalties on tax compliance in paying restaurants taxes in Cilacap. This type of research is classified in quantitative research. The technique of collecting data using questionnaires. Questionnaires were distributed to 82 managers/owners culinary business in Cilacap. The data analysis technique used is multiple linear regression analysis.

The results showed that the tax knowledge and awareness of taxpayers effect on tax compliance. Meanwhile, tax penalties not have an effect on tax compliance. The implications of this study that the broad knowledge possessed taxpayer taxation and a high awareness will increase taxpayer compliance in paying restaurant taxes. Meanwhile, tax penalties do not increase tax compliance in paying restaurant taxes.

Keywords: tax knowledge, awareness of taxpayers, tax penalties, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Pambudi, Prasetyo and Restianto, Yanuar and Hayu WK, Widya, Determinants of Local Taxpayers Compliance in Paying Restaurant Taxes (Studies in Cilacap City) (February 4, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2571920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2571920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
W J S Poerwadarminta
Kamus Umum Bahasa Indonesia Putri Posted: 2003
Pajak Dalam Membayar Pajak Kendaraan Bisnis Fakultas Ekonomi Universitas Udayana Bali
A A Razak , C J Adafula
, p. 48 - 57 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Noor S Shaharuddin
Assessment System: A Theory Of Planned Behavior Approach Business
Economics and Law , volume 1 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,254
RANK
514,796
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies