Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Models of Tax Compliance: The Use-Tax Experiment

2015 Utah L. Rev. 1083

59 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2015 Last revised: 1 Mar 2016

Adam B. Thimmesch

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - College of Law

Date Written: March 2, 2015

Abstract

Researchers in a number of fields have explored the question of why people voluntarily comply with the tax laws. The resulting scholarship suggests that a number of factors influence that decision, but the precise role of, and interaction between, those factors continue to be subjects of debate. More research is thus needed, including field research to put the current theories to test in real-life settings. This Article proposes that state use taxes—known primarily as the taxes that are due when taxpayers purchase items online without paying sales taxes—provide a remarkable opportunity for that research. Compliance with those taxes is virtually nonexistent, and most discussions of that issue simply assume that obtaining meaningful levels of voluntary compliance will be impossible. Those assumptions are largely based on rudimentary applications of a basic deterrence model, which relies heavily on audit risk and penalties as motivators of compliance. The modern models of tax compliance, however, offer many different theories with which states could experiment to promote the voluntary payment of those taxes. That experimentation would not only help states to increase their tax collections, but would also help states and researchers to obtain a deeper understanding of the very models being applied. The lessons learned from those efforts could thus help to inform researchers, the federal government, and governments worldwide regarding how to best encourage voluntary compliance with tax laws more generally. This Article begins the process of obtaining those reciprocal benefits by summarizing the current models of tax compliance and by offering concrete examples of how states could use those models within the context of their use-tax systems. The Article concludes by exploring the features of state use taxes that make them especially well suited for these efforts.

Keywords: Tax Compliance, Use Tax, State Tax, Tax Gap, Social Norms, Behavioral Economics, Procedural Justice

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H25, H26, H29, H70, H71, H72, H73, H79, K34

Suggested Citation:

Thimmesch, Adam B., Testing the Models of Tax Compliance: The Use-Tax Experiment (March 2, 2015). 2015 Utah L. Rev. 1083, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2572623
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Broadly, these nonpecuniary factors can be swept into the concept of "tax morale
E G See , James Alm
Changing the Social Norm of Tax Compliance by Voting
KYKLOS , volume 52 Posted: 1999
E Steven , Kaplan , M J Philip , Reckers
A Study of Tax Evasion Judgments, 38 NAT'L TAX
J , volume 97 , p. 97 - 98 Posted: 1985
Erich Kirchler
Enforced Versus Voluntary Tax Compliance: The "Slippery Slope" Framework, 29
J. ECON. PSYCH , volume 210 , p. 217 - 235 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,440
RANK
153,575
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies