Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Tax Loss Carryforwards and Carrybacks, and Its Implications for Dynamic Portfolio Selection

32 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2015

Suresh Govindaraj

Rutgers University - Rutgers Business School - Newark and New Brunswick

Michael N. Katehakis

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Management Science & Information Systems

Nilofar Varzgani

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: March 9, 2015

Abstract

The issue of valuing tax loss-carryforwards (TCLFs) and carrybacks (TLCBs) arises frequently in theory and practice. While there have been a number of empirical papers that have shown TLCFs (TLCBs) are value relevant, there is little guidance on how to actually value these. The few analytical papers that have attempted to provide valuation formulas are stylized and inadequate. Incorporating the institutional aspects of the tax code, we construct a general algorithmic discrete time framework for valuing TLCFs (TLCBs). We provide explicit formulas with practical applications, and discuss it's implications for dynamic portfolio selection decisions.

Keywords: tax-loss carryforwards; tax-loss carrybacks; valuation; valuation allowance; consumption- investment allocation, portfolio selection with taxes

JEL Classification: D90, E21, G11, G34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Govindaraj, Suresh and Katehakis, Michael N. and Varzgani, Nilofar, Valuation of Tax Loss Carryforwards and Carrybacks, and Its Implications for Dynamic Portfolio Selection (March 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2576348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2576348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Eli Amir , Michael Kirschenheiter , Kristen Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Eli Amir , Michael Kirschenheiter , Kristen Willard
The aggregation and valuation of deferred taxes
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , issue 2-3 , p. 275 - 297 Posted: 2001
Eli Amir , Theodore Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach , M James , Poterba
Tax loss carryforwards and corporate tax incentives. The effects of taxation on capital accumulation , p. 305 - 342 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,222
RANK
297,327
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies