Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Tax Risk: Practitioner Perspectives

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2015 Last revised: 4 Aug 2019

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Andrew Schmidt

North Carolina State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 18, 2019

Abstract

This study uses insights from tax practitioners and tax authorities to define and develop an ex-ante estimate of tax risk that is independent of common tax outcomes studied in the literature. Validation tests confirm that our tax risk measure (1) captures the predictable and unpredictable uncertainty inherent in the three sources of tax risk (i.e., economic risk, tax law uncertainty, and inaccurate information processing) and (2) represents a construct different from current academic tax avoidance, tax uncertainty, and general business risk measures. We then use the tax risk measure to answer two research questions. First, we find a significant, negative association between tax risk and future long-run cash effective tax rates. Second, we demonstrate that our tax risk measure explains a substantial portion of unrecognized tax benefits, incremental and relative to measures of information risk, conditional conservatism, unconditional conservatism, and tax avoidance. Our study offers a measure of tax risk that, consistent with Scholes-Wolfson, reflects the tax risk inherent in all business activities, not just tax avoidance activities, has unique industry effects, and contributes to our understanding of the factors that affect tax planning decisions and result in variation in firms’ effective tax rates. We enhance future tax research by improving the internal, external, and construct validity of tax risk.

Keywords: tax risk; uncertain tax planning; effective tax rates; uncertain tax benefits

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M49

Suggested Citation:

Neuman, Stevanie S. and Omer, Thomas C. and Schmidt, Andrew P., Assessing Tax Risk: Practitioner Perspectives (June 18, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2579354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2579354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Almazan , K Brown , M Carlson , D Chapman
Why constrain your mutual fund manager
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , p. 289 - 321 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N Al-Najjar , J Weinstein
A Bayesian model of Knightian uncertainty
Theory and Decision , volume 78 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Anantharaman , Y Lee
Managerial risk-taking incentives and corporate pension policy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 328 - 351 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,877
RANK
43,670
29 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies