Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Repatriation Tax Costs and U.S. Multinational Companies' Shareholder Payouts

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Mar 2015 Last revised: 20 Oct 2016

Michelle L. Nessa

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Date Written: September 26, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines whether and to what extent repatriation tax costs constrain U.S. multinational companies’ (MNCs) distributions to shareholders. During the 1987-2004 sample period, I find repatriation tax costs decrease U.S. MNCs’ dividend payments, and the economic magnitude of the effect is substantial. I do not find evidence repatriation tax costs decrease U.S. MNCs’ share repurchases on average. I find cross-sectional variation in the effect of repatriation tax costs on share repurchases based on U.S. MNCs’ opportunities to fund repurchases through external borrowing and to minimize the incremental U.S. cash tax cost of repatriations. I do not observe an association between repatriation tax costs and U.S. MNCs’ dividend payments or share repurchases during a more recent time period (2009-2014). This study contributes to our understanding of the impact of the current U.S. worldwide tax system on U.S. MNCs’ real decisions and of the determinants of firms’ payout policies.

Keywords: Repatriation taxes, dividends, repurchases

Suggested Citation:

Nessa, Michelle L., Repatriation Tax Costs and U.S. Multinational Companies' Shareholder Payouts (September 26, 2016). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2580185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2580185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies