Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance and Labor Investment Efficiency

Posted: 24 Mar 2015 Last revised: 27 Mar 2016

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Date Written: March 23, 2015

Abstract

We examine the relation between corporate tax avoidance and labor investment efficiency. Using Jung et al. (2014) model for labor investment efficiency, we find that tax avoidance is negatively associated with more efficient investment in labor. Specifically, firms with more efficient utilization investment in labor through less under (over) firing and less (over) hiring are associated with more tax payment. Our results are consistent after controlling main factors of tax avoidance, including managerial ability and accounting quality. We also robust our analysis with three additional tax avoidance measures, labor investment efficiency and endogeneity. We also find this association is moderated with the corporate financial distress. The results are consistent with the premise that more efficiency decision of the firm’s labor contracting and hiring can and do impact corporate tax payment.

Keywords: labor investment efficiency; tax avoidance, managerial ability; resource-based dependence theory; agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Al-Hadi, Ahmed, Corporate Tax Avoidance and Labor Investment Efficiency (March 23, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2583705
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,281
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies