Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Consequences of Tax Audits: Some Evidence from China

48 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2015

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Wanfu Li

Nanjing University of Finance & Economics

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zi-Tian Wang

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: March 26, 2015

Abstract

Using proprietary data obtained from a local tax office in China, we examine the determinants of corporate tax audits and the consequences of those audits. We find that the tax authority is more likely to select a firm for an audit when the firm has a lower effective tax rate, a higher book-tax difference, and more income-decreasing discretionary accruals. In addition, the tax office imposes larger tax payments on the audited firms that have lower effective tax rates, higher book-tax differences, and more income-decreasing discretionary accruals. Applying a difference-in-difference and matching research design, we find that after firms have been audited they significantly increase their effective tax rates, reduce their book-tax differences, and reduce their income-decreasing discretionary accruals. Our study provides important insights on the determinants of the tax authority’s decision on whether to initiate an audit and the impact of tax audits on both tax reporting and financial reporting.

Keywords: tax audit, deterrent effect, tax aggressiveness, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: H26, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lennox, Clive and Li, Wanfu and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Wang, Zi-Tian, The Determinants and Consequences of Tax Audits: Some Evidence from China (March 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2585466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2585466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Feldman
An example of convergence to rational expectations with heterogeneous beliefs
International Economic Review , volume 28 , p. 635 - 650 Posted: 1987
Crossref
M ; L Frank , Lynch; And S , Rego
Tax reporting aggressiveness and its relation to aggressive financial reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 467 - 496 Posted: 2009
Crossref
N ; S Friedland , Maital; And A , Rutenberg
A simulation study of tax evasion
Journal of Public Economics , volume 10 , p. 107 - 123 Posted: 1978
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,892
RANK
43,190
7 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies