Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance in Response to a Decline in the Funding Status of Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2015 Last revised: 17 Sep 2016

Neeru Chaudhry

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi

Hue Hwa Au Yong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Chris Veld

Monash University

Date Written: September 16, 2016

Abstract

We examine the effect of the funding status of defined benefit (DB) pension plans on company tax avoidance behavior. Our results reveal that firms engage more in tax avoidance when the pension deficit, defined as pension liabilities minus pension assets scaled by total assets, increases. We find that for an average pension deficit firm one standard deviation increase in pension deficit is associated with annual tax savings of $3.64 million. For 2014 we find that, on the aggregate level, for firms with underfunded DB pension plans a one standard deviation increase in pension deficit is associated with annual tax savings of more than 2.7 billion dollars. Our results hold after controlling for factors such as profitability, financial constraints, operating losses, and foreign income.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, tax planning, defined benefit pension plan, pension deficit, underfunded pension plan

JEL Classification: G32, H26, J32

Suggested Citation:

Chaudhry, Neeru and Au Yong, Hue Hwa and Veld, Chris, Tax Avoidance in Response to a Decline in the Funding Status of Defined Benefit Pension Plans (September 16, 2016). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2585801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2585801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Asthana
Determinants of funding strategies and actuarial choices for defined-benefit pension plans
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 74 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J L Blouin , M Devereux , D A Shackelford
Investment, tax uncertainty, and aggressive tax avoidance Posted: 2012
J L Campbell , D S Dhaliwal , W C Schwartz
Financing constraints and the cost of capital: Evidence from the funding of corporate pension plans
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , p. 868 - 912 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
RANK
290,067
5 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies