Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Aggressive Tax Planning Facilitates the Diversion of Corporate Resources: Evidence from Path Analysis

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2015 Last revised: 8 Aug 2019

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Junxiong Fang

Fudan University - School of Management

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 29, 2019

Abstract

In measuring tunneling with inter-corporate loans disclosed by Chinese listed companies, we analyze the underlying channels through which aggressive tax planning facilitates the diversion of corporate resources by firm insiders. Using path analysis, we document that the path from tax aggressiveness to related loans is mediated by both the additional cash flows from tax savings and the increased financial opacity from tax planning, and that additional cash flows plays a much more important role than opacity at helping controlling shareholders to divert corporate resources under the guise of tax aggressiveness. Beyond the two mediated paths, we also detect a residual, direct path from tax aggressiveness to related loans. After the exogenous shock from the government crackdown on diversionary related loans, we find the direct path is fully mediated by the two indirect paths, suggesting that tunneling via related loans only occurs at firms where insiders can mask tunneling under the cover of opacity or can justify related loans on grounds of abnormal cash flows from tax savings. Our evidence supports the notion that greater outside scrutiny increases the hurdle for, but does not entirely eradicate, diversion facilitated by tax aggressiveness. Collectively, our research lends some support to recent theory on the importance of taxes to corporate governance by demonstrating how the agency costs of tax planning allow certain shareholders to benefit from firm activities at the expense of others.

Keywords: tunneling; tax aggressiveness; self-dealing; monitoring

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M. and Fang, Junxiong and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Zhang, Yinqi and Zhao, Yuping, How Aggressive Tax Planning Facilitates the Diversion of Corporate Resources: Evidence from Path Analysis (July 29, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2586818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2586818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Crossref
K H Bae , J.-K Kang , J.-M Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
17 Citations
Hanwen Chen , Song Tang , Donghui Wu , Daoguang Yang
The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience
52 Pages · Posted: 6 Aug 2015 · Last revised: 17 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 1,279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bill B. Francis , Wenyao Hu , Thomas Shohfi , Roger M. White
Are Managers ‘Under-the-Weather’ During Earnings Conference Calls?
42 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 1,070
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eva Eberhartinger , David Samuel
Monitoring Incentives and Tax Planning – Evidence from State-Owned Enterprises
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-08, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper · 40 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2020 · Last revised: 12 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 414
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hanwen Chen , Song Tang , Donghui Wu , Daoguang Yang
The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience
The Accounting Review · 50 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 1,604
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,466
RANK
123,650
17 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies