Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Tax Reform on Drop-Off Ratios and on the Ex-Dividend and Ex-Rights Prices

Effects of tax reform on drop-off ratios and on the ex-dividend and ex-right prices, REVIEW OF QUANTITATIVE FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING, Vol. 39, No. 2, pp. 147-164.

20 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2015

Jack Clark Francis

Zicklin School of Business, Baruch College

Tsing Zai Wu

National Cheng Kung University

Nan-Ting Kuo

National Central University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This empirical paper examines the introduction of the integrated tax system in Taiwan on dividend valuation. The Elton & Gruber (Rev. Econ. Stat. 1970) model suggests the ratio of ex-day stock price dropoff to cash dividend per share should reflect the relative tax rates on dividends and capital gains.

Keywords: Ex-cash-dividend stock price dropoff, Elton & Gruber model, tax reform, tick size

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jack Clark and Wu, Tsing Zai and Kuo, Nan-Ting, Effects of Tax Reform on Drop-Off Ratios and on the Ex-Dividend and Ex-Rights Prices (2012). Effects of tax reform on drop-off ratios and on the ex-dividend and ex-right prices, REVIEW OF QUANTITATIVE FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING, Vol. 39, No. 2, pp. 147-164. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2587438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Bali , G L Hite
Ex-dividend day stock price behavior: discreteness or tax-induced clienteles?
J Financ Econ , volume 47 , p. 127 - 159 Posted: 1998
Crossref
L Bell , T Jenkinson
New evidence of the impact of dividend taxation and on the identity of the marginal investor
J Finance , volume 57 , p. 1321 - 1346 Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Booth , D Johnston
The ex-dividend day behavior of Canadian stock prices: tax change and clientele effects
J Finance , volume 39 , p. 457 - 476 Posted: 1984
Crossref
P Brown , A Clarke
The ex-dividend day behavior of Australia share prices before and after dividend imputation
Aust J Manage , volume 18 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,295
RANK
880,951
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies