Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does FIN 48 Improve Firms' Estimates of Tax Reserves?

52 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2015 Last revised: 3 Sep 2016

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Michelle L. Nessa

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Date Written: August 2, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines whether the increased accounting guidance and reporting requirements of FIN 48 impact the adequacy and accuracy of tax reserves and the effect of auditor-provided tax services on tax reserves. While we do not find FIN 48 affected the adequacy or accuracy of tax reserves on average, FIN 48 eliminated the differences in the tax reserve adequacy of firms with and without auditor-provided tax services that existed prior to its adoption. We also find evidence of more timely recording and less premature releasing of tax reserves post-FIN 48. Our evidence is consistent with an increase in comparability of reserves for firms that do and do not purchase auditor-provided tax services, consistent with one of the FASB’s objectives for FIN 48.

Keywords: FIN 48; tax reserves; Auditor-provided tax services

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Cristi A. and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F. and Nessa, Michelle L., Does FIN 48 Improve Firms' Estimates of Tax Reserves? (August 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2594507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
13 Citations
Preeti Choudhary , Allison Koester , Robert J. Pawlewicz
Tax Non-Audit Services and Client Income Tax Estimation Error
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory · 56 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2013 · Last revised: 21 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 936
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Will Ciconte , Michael P. Donohoe , Petro Lisowsky , Michael Mayberry
The predictive ability of tax contingencies for future income tax cash outflows
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2014 · Last revised: 17 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 1,146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nathan C. Goldman , M. Harris , Thomas C. Omer
Does Task-Specific Knowledge Improve Audit Quality: Evidence from Audits of Income Tax Accounts
Accounting, Organizations & Society, Forthcoming · 65 Pages · Posted: 9 Oct 2017 · Last revised: 15 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 510
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nathan C. Goldman , Niklas Lampenius , Suresh Radhakrishnan , Arthur Stenzel , Jose Elias Almeida
IRS Scrutiny and Corporate Innovation
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 58 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2018 · Last revised: 27 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 489
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,358
RANK
212,384
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies