Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framing and Salience Effects in Tax Evasion Decisions – An Experiment on Underreporting and Overdeducting

58 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2015 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Nadja Wolf

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: July 3, 2018

Abstract

Tax evasion costs governments worldwide trillions of U.S. dollars. Thus, a comprehensive understanding of tax evasion behavior is needed to ensure that tax evasion is combatted effectively. Using different controlled and incentivized experiments, we analyze whether taxpayers are more willing to evade taxes by underreporting positive income (e.g., business or nonbusiness income) than by overdeducting negative income (e.g., deductions, credits, or losses). We robustly observe an asymmetric tax evasion behavior. Specifically, subjects are less compliant in case of positive income. We argue that this result can be explained by an asymmetric evaluation of tax payments and tax refunds in accordance with prospect theory and the income tax withholding phenomenon. However, in an experimental environment in which the interaction of positive and negative income reporting is made very saliently and in which we consequently expect that subjects decide on both tax evasion decisions jointly, the effect vanishes. We therefore provide evidence that 1) tax evasion behavior is asymmetrically in case of positive and negative income reporting and that 2) the salience of income interaction plays an important role in tax evasion decisions.

Keywords: Tax evasion, cheating, prospect theory, behavioral taxation, experimental economics

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H26

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Wolf, Nadja, Framing and Salience Effects in Tax Evasion Decisions – An Experiment on Underreporting and Overdeducting (July 3, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2595070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2595070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Testing behavioral public economics theories in the laboratory
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , p. 635 - 658 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Alm , K Bloomquist , M Mckee
On the external validity of laboratory tax compliance experiments
Economic Inquiry , volume 53 , p. 1170 - 1186 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,619
RANK
133,571
7 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies