Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Paradoxical Impact of Corporate Inversions on US Tax Revenue

69 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2015 Last revised: 23 Aug 2016

Rita Gunn

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: August 21, 2016

Abstract

Corporate inversions – reorganizations that result in relocating corporate tax domiciles from the US to a foreign country – are alleged to cost the US Treasury billions of dollars in tax revenue. Contrary to these assertions, we find that that inverting firms pay no less taxes after the inversion than they did before. Moreover, contrary to the common belief, we estimate that the inversions result in US shareholders realizing $81,415.92 million in capital gains and annual increases in dividends of $9,959.37 million. Thus, paradoxically, inversions are likely to increase tax collections by the US Treasury.

Keywords: Cash, Tax, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: M40, G34, H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Gunn, Rita and Lys, Thomas Z., The Paradoxical Impact of Corporate Inversions on US Tax Revenue (August 21, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2596706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
625
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,206
RANK
97,924
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies