Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Rebates on Firm Value: Evidence from High-Tech Certificates Announcements in China

43 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2015

Estelle P. Dauchy

Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids

Yi Zhou

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

High technology and innovation has become a central part of China’s long-term growth strategy. The 2007 enterprise tax reform (EIT) significantly reduced the statutory tax rate of high-tech firms from 33 percent to at most 15 percent, and possibly less, guaranteed for at least 3 years. Before the reform, tax benefits to high-tech firms were only provided at the local level, were not available nationwide on a uniform basis, and subject to stringent financial criteria. In spite of the reform high-tech certificates have been criticized for being awarded to companies that were already enjoying tax benefits, in which case the reform only marginally changed their effective corporate tax rate. Using an event study methodology to study the stock market reaction to high-tech certificates announcements in China, we find that high high-tech certificate announcements generated significant positive abnormal returns. The impact is significantly larger for private firms than government-owned firm, because private firms were less likely to benefit from other pre-event tax benefits, as well as small and growth firms, and non-high tech manufacturing industries. Although this paper focuses on a specific provision of EIT reform, it is one of the first empirical evaluations of the reform and the first study that investigates whether the reform in high-tech taxation was effective at reaching non government-owned firms.

Keywords: event study, high-tech, China, tax reform, enterprise income tax, stock market

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, H25, H87

Suggested Citation:

Dauchy, Estelle P. and Zhou, Yi, The Impact of Tax Rebates on Firm Value: Evidence from High-Tech Certificates Announcements in China (December 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2599127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2599127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
K R Ahern
Sample selection and event study estimation
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , p. 466 - 482 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A J Auerbach , K A Hassett
The effect of shareholder-level dividend taxes on stock prices: evidence from the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 11449 , p. 933 - 947 Posted: 2002
E Boehmer , J Musumeci , A B Poulsen , S J Brown , J B Warner
Event study methodology underconditions of event-induced variance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 30 , p. 205 - 258 Posted: 1980
Crossref
C J Campbell , C E Wasley
Measuring security price performance using daily NASDAQ returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 33 , p. 73 - 92 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,475
RANK
677,757
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies