Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Audit Engagements and Client Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Italian Statutory Audit Regime

Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2019, DOI: 10.2308/atax-52151

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 18-9

Posted: 3 May 2015 Last revised: 13 Apr 2021

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Diana Falsetta

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Eric H. Weisbrod

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: May 15, 2018

Abstract

Under the Italian statutory audit regime, three individual accountants are jointly appointed to audit each client’s annual financial statements and sign off on the tax return. These individuals can belong to the same or different accounting firms and through multiple and repeated collaborations they form a professional network. We use network measures of centrality to capture individuals’ ability to acquire and apply tax expertise across clients. We demonstrate that clients engaging better-connected individual auditors have comparatively lower effective tax rates. Our results are robust to controlling for a number of client, individual, and accounting firm characteristics, as well as for alternative network connections between clients. We also use instrumental variables, individual fixed effects, and matching to mitigate the effect of endogenous pairing of clients and auditors. Our findings demonstrate that in a joint audit environment, individual auditor professional networks have consequences for tax outcomes. We extend the literature on joint audit regimes, collaboration between individual auditors from the same and different accounting firms, and determinants and consequences of individual auditors’ characteristics.

Keywords: tax avoidance, social network analysis, auditor networks, auditor tax expertise

Suggested Citation:

Bianchi, Pietro A. and Falsetta, Diana and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Weisbrod, Eric H., Joint Audit Engagements and Client Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Italian Statutory Audit Regime (May 15, 2018). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2019, DOI: 10.2308/atax-52151 , University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 18-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2601570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2601570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies