Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Googling a Free Lunch: The Taxation of Fringe Benefits

Tax Law Review 69: 275-309 (2016)

39 Pages Posted: 2 May 2015 Last revised: 11 Aug 2016

Yehonatan Givati

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 28, 2015

Abstract

How should fringe benefits be taxed? Though fringe benefits are covered in every basic law school course on federal income taxation, no widely accepted economic framework has developed for thinking about their taxation. As a result, policymakers lack a clear picture of the benefits and costs of alternative tax regimes, when faced with situations such as the free luxurious meals provided by Google and Facebook to their employees. This Article fills this gap in the literature, by developing an economic theory of the provision of fringe benefits. Employing this economic framework, this Article considers different tax regimes for fringe benefits, using standard measures of a desirable tax policy, namely equity, efficiency, and revenue raising. This analysis provides three valuable implications. First, when labor markets are competitive, the choice of tax regime for fringe benefits has no effect on either horizontal or vertical equity. Second, the efficiency of the provision of fringe benefits depends on the marginal taxable income from these benefits. Third, non-taxation of fringe benefits generates a "double penalty" phenomenon, which results in a greater effect on tax revenue than scholars have realized. In light of these implications, this Article shows that policymakers choosing among possible tax regimes for fringe benefits face a tradeoff between efficiency and revenue raising. The two extreme tax regimes for fringe benefit often used, namely non-taxation and taxation at fair market value, lead to non-optimal outcomes both in terms of efficiency and in terms of revenue raising. Therefore, adopting intermediate tax regimes, such as the taxation of fringe benefits at half their fair market value, is desirable.

Suggested Citation:

Givati, Yehonatan, Googling a Free Lunch: The Taxation of Fringe Benefits (February 28, 2015). Tax Law Review 69: 275-309 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2601293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Additionally, for the three meals John is sent to, he pays $112.5 in tax ($37.5 for each meal). Thus, in total John pays $925 in tax. This is a small reduction in tax revenue relative to the first best case
by $375. Thus, John has a cash income of $1,650, on which he pays $812.5 in tax
Victor Fleischer , Calculating Apple&apos;s True , U S Tax Rate
One lesson from the Senate hearing about Apple's offshore tax planning is that figuring out what a multinational company actually pays in taxes is harder than it should be
NEW YORK TIMES Posted: 2013-06-04
Jesse Drucker
Based on its public filings, the company pays just under 14 percent of its income in taxes worldwide, according to Scott D. Dyreng, an assistant professor of accounting at Duke University's business school whose research specializes in the actual tax rates of large U.S. companies.)". See also David Leonhardt, Who Will Crack the Code?
Apple Tax Rate Ignores Profit Shifting Offshore, BLOOMBERG Posted: 2013-05-23
Fleischer
Its worldwide pretax book income over that period was about $65 billion. Thus, Apple's 'true U.S. tax rate,' according to my own calculation Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,969
RANK
239,334
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies