Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Aggressiveness and Insider Trading

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 10 May 2015 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Sung Gon Chung

Wayne State University

Beng Wee Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: November 28, 2017

Abstract

We examine the association between corporate tax aggressiveness and the profitability of insider trading under the assumption that insider trading profits reflect managerial opportunism. We document that insider purchase profitability, but not sales profitability, is significantly higher on average in more tax aggressive firms. We also find that the positive association between tax aggressiveness and insider purchase profitability is attenuated for firms with more effective monitoring and is accentuated for firms with a more opaque information environment. In addition, we provide empirical evidence that tax aggressiveness is significantly associated with greater insider sales volume in the fiscal year prior to a stock price crash. Finally, we find that the association between tax aggressiveness and insider purchase profitability weakens after the introduction of FIN 48, consistent with the increased transparency of tax positions under the new disclosure requirement reducing insiders’ information advantage and hence their ability to profit from insider trading. To the extent that insider trading profits reflect managerial opportunism, our results are consistent with managers exploiting the opacity arising from tax aggressive activities to extract rent from shareholders, particularly those who sold their shares to the managers. Our findings are particularly important in light of the number of studies relying on the agency view of tax avoidance to develop arguments or to draw inferences.

Keywords: Tax aggressiveness, insider trading, litigation risk, managerial rent extraction

JEL Classification: G28, G32, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Sung Gon and Goh, Beng Wee and Lee, Jimmy and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Corporate Tax Aggressiveness and Insider Trading (November 28, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2604376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2604376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Usman Ali , David Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a Firm and Managerial Trait: Predicting Insider Trading Profits and Misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming Pages: 81 Posted: 24 Jul 2015 Last revised: 17 May 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 227 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Armstrong C S , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,821
RANK
117,019
7 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies