Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Crisis and Tobin Taxation: An Event Analysis

Posted: 18 May 2015

Theodore D. Bratis

Athens University of Economics and Business

Georgios P. Kouretas

Athens University of Economics and Business; IPAG Business School

Nikiforos T. Laopodis

Fairfield University - School of Business - Department of Finance; Deree

Date Written: March 13, 2015

Abstract

Under the context of EMU debt and financial crisis we assess the impact of EMU’s legislative initiative on Tobin tax for financial regulation. Specifically we focus on its impact on bond and equity volatility for a representative basket of 7 countries: Germany, France (core EMU) and Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain (periphery EMU). In the absence of historical data on volume and volatility of transactions of a (simultaneous) security transaction tax (STT), we derive a pure event analysis. Secondly we expect the announcement of the tax decision to impact volatility in bond/equity market. We find evidence for the core and periphery EMU bond return portfolio (under both approaches) and core equity EMU under the event study methodology.

Keywords: event study, GARCH, financial taxation, regulation

JEL Classification: G01, G15, F34.

Suggested Citation:

Bratis, Theodore D. and Kouretas, Georgios P. and Laopodis, Nikiforos T., Financial Crisis and Tobin Taxation: An Event Analysis (March 13, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2604911
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies