Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Investors Infer About Future Cash Flows from Foreign Earnings for Firms with Low Average Foreign Tax Rates?

52 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015 Last revised: 27 Nov 2015

Michelle L. Nessa

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: November 25, 2015

Abstract

This study examines whether investors discount the foreign earnings of U.S. multinational corporations in anticipation of future repatriation taxes. Investor pricing of repatriation taxes has become increasingly important because of the decline in foreign statutory tax rates relative to the U.S. statutory tax rate over the past twenty years combined with the increasing significance of foreign income for U.S. multinationals. Recent comments by regulators suggest they believe current disclosures related to potential repatriation taxes on foreign earnings are insufficient. Consistent with investors pricing repatriation taxes, we observe a significant difference in the earnings response coefficient on changes in foreign earnings of firms with low versus high average foreign tax rates. We also conduct a series of tests to examine whether investor expectations about the likelihood of future repatriation taxes vary as a function of certain firm characteristics. We find no evidence investors differentiate between low foreign tax rate firms based on the likelihood of repatriation.

Keywords: Earnings response coefficients, permanently reinvested earnings, reinvestment, growth, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G10, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Nessa, Michelle L. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Wilson, Ryan J., What Do Investors Infer About Future Cash Flows from Foreign Earnings for Firms with Low Average Foreign Tax Rates? (November 25, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Ayers , C Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: The magnitude and determinants of undisclosed permanently reinvested earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Bauman , K Shaw
The usefulness of disclosures of untaxed foreign earnings in firm valuation
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 53 - 77 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Bird , A Edwards , T Shevlin , B Blaylock , T Shevlin , R Wilson
Does the U.S. system of taxation on multinationals advantage foreign acquirers? Carnegie Mellon University working paper
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 120 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,112
RANK
234,221
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies