Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing the Transfer of Intellectual Property as a Problem of Second-Best Tax Policy

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5340

24 Pages Posted: 19 May 2015

Wolfram F. Richter

TU Dortmund University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Markus Breuer

SRH Hochschule Heidelberg - Department of Business Administration and Economics

Date Written: May 19, 2015

Abstract

The adequate pricing of intellectual property ("IP") for tax reporting is a largely unsettled issue. Transactional profit-based methods are on the rise although only rated as "methods of last resort" by the OECD. This paper focuses on regulated profit splitting and compares this transfer pricing rule with one allowing multinationals to price IP freely subject to the constraint that the price used for tax reporting is also used internally. The standard of comparison is global efficiency in R&D. The model is one of second best. It allows for internationally differentiated tax rates and non-deductible effort costs in the production of know-how.

Keywords: transfer pricing rule, intellectual property, profit split method, allocational efficiency, second-best policy

JEL Classification: H250, O340, M480, F230

Suggested Citation:

Richter, Wolfram F. and Breuer, Markus, Pricing the Transfer of Intellectual Property as a Problem of Second-Best Tax Policy (May 19, 2015). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5340, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2607929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2607929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,835
RANK
390,908
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies