Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty

50 Pages Posted: 23 May 2015 Last revised: 16 Jun 2017

Benjamin C. Ayers

University of Georgia

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Erin Towery

University of Georgia

Date Written: June 15, 2017

Abstract

This study uses a confidential dataset of firms assigned to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)’s Coordinated Industry Case (CIC) program to examine the effect of audit certainty on firms’ tax reporting behavior. We first model the determinants of assignment to the program. Though the ability and incentive to avoid taxes are related to CIC assignment, we find that the IRS assigns firms primarily based on size and complexity. We then test whether audit certainty has a significant effect on tax payments. Our results show that tax payments do not change when firms enter the CIC program, suggesting the CIC program does not have significant deterrence or enforcement effects relative to the IRS’s standard selection and audit process for large corporations not included in the CIC program. However, supplemental analysis suggests that audit certainty does alter managers’ expectations regarding future tax payments. Our paper provides new empirical evidence on the strategic game between the taxpayer and the tax authority and has important implications for tax authorities as they consider the costs and benefits of certain audit programs.

Keywords: Tax examination; Internal Revenue Service; Coordinated Industry Case program; Tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H25; M20; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ayers, Benjamin C. and Seidman, Jeri K. and Towery, Erin, Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty (June 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2609134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2609134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Add 1 point for each additional $3 billion in assets, or fraction thereof
Add one point for each additional $3 Billion in gross receipts, or fraction thereof, not to exceed 10 points. 3. Operating Entities (geographic segments from Compustat Segments dataset
Multiple Industry Status (business segments from Compustat Segments dataset, point system based on point system for Operating Entities because IRM Exhibit is not detailed for this item) •Number of Industries , p. 1 - 1
Crossref
Number of Industries 2-5 -3 points
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,880
RANK
124,535
11 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies