Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Turns the Taxman On? The Effect of Tax Aggressiveness and Voluntary Audit on Adjustments to the Tax Returns of Private Companies

41 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2015 Last revised: 6 Jul 2015

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Juha Kinnunen

Aalto University School of Business

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Pontus Troberg

Helsinki School of Economics

Jill Collis

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School

Date Written: April 1, 2015

Abstract

Using a large proprietary data set from the internal records of the Finnish Tax Administration for the fiscal year 2011, we examine the factors that trigger adjustments by the tax authority to the taxable income reported by around 25,000 small private companies. Using that data, we develop a new direct measure of tax aggressiveness and introduce the direct and indirect effects of external audit into the tax aggressiveness literature, whilst avoiding the classic endogeneity problem. We hypothesize and find that being tax aggressive increases the likelihood of the tax authority not accepting taxable income as reported, whereas having a voluntary audit with an unqualified audit opinion decreases it. We also find that an unqualified audit opinion moderates the positive effect of tax aggressiveness on the likelihood of the tax authority making adjustments. While these findings are statistically significant when tax aggressiveness is measured by the book-tax difference (non-taxable revenues less non-tax deductible expenses) reported in the company’s tax return, they are insignificant when measured by the conventional metric of book-tax difference based on publicly available financial statement data. The main results are insensitive to whether the full sample is used or a balanced sample based on propensity score pairing of tax-adjusted firms with their non-adjusted counterparts. The robustness tests show that our results are qualitatively unaffected by the modifications made to the variable definitions and sample composition.

Keywords: tax adjustments, tax aggressiveness, tax return, voluntary audit, financial statement quality

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ojala, Hannu and Kinnunen, Juha and Niemi, Lasse and Troberg, Pontus and Collis, Jill, What Turns the Taxman On? The Effect of Tax Aggressiveness and Voluntary Audit on Adjustments to the Tax Returns of Private Companies (April 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2617179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2617179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C Caramanis , C Lennox
Audit effort and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 116 - 138 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C J P Chen , C Shimin , X Su
Profitability regulation, earnings management, and modified audit opinions: Evidence from China
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 9 - 30 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Cho , J Wong , N Wong
Book-tax differences and inland revenue audit adjustments in New Zealand
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 33 , issue 9 , p. 1650 - 1667 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Collis
Determinants of voluntary audit and voluntary full accounts in micro-and non-micro-companies in the
UK. Accounting and Business Research , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Hannu Ojala , Jill Collis , Juha Kinnunen , Lasse Niemi , Pontus Troberg
The Demand for Voluntary Audit in Micro‐Companies: Evidence from Finland
International Journal of Auditing , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 267 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Rakia Riguen , Bassem Salhi , Anis Jarboui
The Impact of Audit Characteristics on Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Moderating Role of Gender Diversity
Scientific Annals of Economics and Business , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 97 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
252,723
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies