Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Moving to a Territorial Tax System on Profit Repatriation: Evidence from Japan

Working Paper

50 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2015 Last revised: 17 Aug 2017

Makoto Hasegawa

Graduate School of Economics, Kyoto University

Kozo Kiyota

Keio University - Keio Economic Observatory

Date Written: August 17, 2017

Abstract

In an increasingly globalized world, the design of international tax systems in terms of the taxation of foreign corporate income has attracted much attention from policy makers and economists alike. In the past, Japan's worldwide tax system taxed foreign source income upon repatriation. However, to stimulate dividend repatriations from Japanese-owned foreign affiliates, the Japanese government introduced a foreign dividend exemption system in 2009 that exempted dividends remitted by Japanese-owned foreign affiliates to their parent firms from home-country taxation. This paper examines the effect of this dividend exemption system on profit repatriation by Japanese multinationals. We find that the response of Japanese-owned affiliates to the dividend exemption was heterogeneous. More particularly, foreign affiliates with a large stock of retained earnings were generally more responsive to the reform and significantly increased dividend payments to their parent firms in response to the enactment of the dividend exemption system. Dividend payments by these affiliates also became more sensitive to withholding tax rates on dividends levied by host countries under the new exemption system.

Keywords: International taxation, Worldwide tax system, Territorial tax system, Profit repatriation, Dividend exemption

JEL Classification: H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Hasegawa, Makoto and Kiyota, Kozo, The Effect of Moving to a Territorial Tax System on Profit Repatriation: Evidence from Japan (August 17, 2017). Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2618058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2618058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Chunrong Ai , Edward C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Where Will They Go if We Go Territorial? Dividend Exemption and the Location Decisions of U.S. Multinational Corporations
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 787 - 809 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , T Scott Newlon , C William , Randolph
Do Repatriation Taxes Matter? Evidence from the Tax Returns of U.S. Multinationals
The Effects of Taxation on Multinational Corporations , p. 253 - 272 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , Stephen E. Shay , Eric J. Toder
Lessons the United States Can Learn from Other Countries’ Territorial Systems for Taxing Income of Multinational Corporations
Pages: 57 Posted: 30 Jan 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
6 Citations
Sebastien Bradley , Estelle P. Dauchy , Makoto Hasegawa
Investor Valuations of Japan's Adoption of a Territorial Tax Regime: Quantifying the Direct and Competitive Effects of International Tax Reform
61 Pages · Posted: 9 Nov 2013 · Last revised: 11 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 177
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kimberly A. Clausing
Beyond Territorial and Worldwide Systems of International Taxation
34 Pages · Posted: 22 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 826
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Makoto Hasegawa
Territorial Tax Reform and Profit Shifting by US and Japanese Multinationals
59 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 14 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 216
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dominika Langenmayr , Li Liu
Where Does Multinational Profit Go with Territorial Taxation? Evidence from the UK
CESifo Working Paper No. 8047 · 38 Pages · Posted: 28 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 278
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,082
RANK
174,067
6 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies