Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Increased Disclosure Requirements and the Standardization of Accounting Practices on Earnings Management Through the Reserve for Income Taxes

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2015

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 15-47

Posted: 18 Jun 2015

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Richard A. Cazier

University of North Texas

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: March 2015

Abstract

We examine whether the regulatory changes required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. (FIN) 48 reduced the propensity for earnings management through the reserve for income taxes. Given prior evidence that firms use this reserve to manage earnings to beat the consensus analyst forecast, the regulatory changes implemented by both SOX and FIN 48 allow us to study the effects of accounting regulation on earnings management. We find that neither SOX nor FIN 48 reduced earnings management through the reserve for income taxes. Thus, in contrast to research that examines whether SOX affected nontax, accrual-based earnings management, our results suggest managers continue to take advantage of their discretion over the accounting for income taxes to beat the consensus analyst forecast in both the post-SOX and post-FIN 48 periods.

Keywords: Tax reserves, Tax cushion, FIN 48, Earnings management, Change in accounting standard

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Rego, Sonja O. and Cazier, Richard A. and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee) and Wilson, Ryan J., The Impact of Increased Disclosure Requirements and the Standardization of Accounting Practices on Earnings Management Through the Reserve for Income Taxes (March 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2015, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 15-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies