Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Personal Income Tax Compliance: Perception of Nigerian Tax Payers

18 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2015

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin

Ehichioya Imobhio

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Famous Izedonmi

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the Determinants of Personal Income Tax Compliance. The study anchors on the fiscal exchange theory and social & psychological theory to predict the determinants of personal income tax compliance. The survey research design was adopted and questionnaire was distributed to elicit responses from self-employed persons. The ordered logistic regression was used to analyse the data gathered and was done electronically using the SPSS and Eviews 7 software. The findings show that there is a significant positive relationship between tax rate and personal income tax compliance; the perception of taxpayers’ of the Government of the day has a significant impact on how they comply with personal income taxation; taxpayers’ income has a significant impact on personal income tax compliance; the gender of the taxpayer has no significant positive relationship with his/her level of tax compliance; and the attitude of taxpayers to the tax system has a significant impact on personal income tax compliance. The study therefore concludes that the psychological aspects of taxpayers such as taxpayers’ perception and attitude have a more fundamental impact on personal income tax compliance than deterrent tax measures. Based on these, the study recommends amongst others that deterrent tax measures such as fines and penalties should incorporate the psychological aspect of taxpayers. That is, tax administrators should know when and how to combine strict deterrent measures with persuasive measures (education).

Keywords: Tax compliance, Fiscal exchange theory, Social & psychological theory.

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Aronmwan, Edosa and Imobhio, Ehichioya and Izedonmi, Famous, Determinants of Personal Income Tax Compliance: Perception of Nigerian Tax Payers (June 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2619855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
M T Abdulrazaq
Principles and Practice of Nigerian Tax Planning and Management Posted: 1993
I R Akintoye , G A Tashie
The effect of tax compliance on economic growth and development in Nigeria, West Africa
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 231 Posted: 2013
J O Alabede
Improving efficiency of tax administration for effective revenue generation in democratic Nigeria
SBS national conference Posted: 2001
J O Alabede , Z B Ariffin , K M Idris
Public governance quality and tax compliance behavior in Nigeria: The moderating role of financial condition and risk preference
Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting , volume 5 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,568
RANK
55,687
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies