Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cashless Economy, Tax Evasion and the Behaviour of Self-Employed and Professionals in Nigeria

ICAN Journal of Accounting & Finance, 3(1), 80-87, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2015

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

A. J. Avwokeni

University of Lagos

Date Written: September 23, 2014

Abstract

The study reports on whether a cashless economy is a panacea for reduction of tax evasion by the self-employed. It identifies probability of detection and tax penalties as concomitant variables based on the literature on tax evasion that may blur any impact, and proceed to test the impact of a cashless policy on tax evasion behaviour. A comparative group design, involving self-employed traders and professionals in independent practice, is adopted. A battery of test items developed to estimate probabilities of detection and tax evasion behaviour scores is packaged into a questionnaire and circulated to self-employed qualified to pay personal income tax. The result fails to reject the null hypothesis of no difference between tax evasion behaviour of the comparative groups. The conclusion, starkly drawn, is that tax evasion behaviour of the self-employed has reduced but the reduction cannot be entirely ascribed to the cashless policy, as taxpayers are unaware of the implication of the cashless policy on tax evasion. It is recommended that tax inspectors performing tax audit function should utilise third party information provided by banks to track noncompliant taxpayers.

Keywords: cashless policy, probability of detection, tax fines, personal income tax, Central Bank of Nigeria

JEL Classification: E58, H26

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Avwokeni, Arthur Joseph, Cashless Economy, Tax Evasion and the Behaviour of Self-Employed and Professionals in Nigeria (September 23, 2014). ICAN Journal of Accounting & Finance, 3(1), 80-87, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2622025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2622025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M M Ali , W H Cecil , J A Knobletti
The effects of tax rates and enforcement policies on taxpayer compliance: A Study of Self-Employed taxpayers
Atlantic Economic Journal , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 186 - 202 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee
Estimating the determinants of taxpayer compliance with experimental data
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 1992
J Alm , M Mckee
Audit certainty, audit productivity and taxpayer compliance
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 801 - 816 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
262,460
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies