Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Targets' Tax Shelter Participation and Takeover Premiums

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-36

64 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Yanju Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University – Department of Accountancy and Law

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of targets’ participation in tax shelters on takeover premiums in mergers and acquisitions. Using a novel dataset in which targets disclose that they have not participated in tax shelters, we find that targets that make this statement in their merger filings are associated with 4.6 percent higher takeover premiums, on average. This relation is consistent with acquirers being are concerned about the potential future liabilities when targets have engaged in tax sheltering. Consistent with this interpretation, the positive association between targets’ non sheltering disclosure and acquisition premiums is stronger for less tax aggressive acquirers. This paper demonstrates the importance of targets’ aggressive tax positions in the determination of premiums offered to targets’ shareholders.

Keywords: tax sheltering, tax aggressiveness, takeover premium

JEL Classification: G34, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chow, Travis and Klassen, Kenneth and Liu, Yanju, Targets' Tax Shelter Participation and Takeover Premiums (June 17, 2015). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2628338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Herita T. Akamah , Ole-Kristian Hope , Wayne B. Thomas
Tax Havens and Disclosure Aggregation
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2419573 Pages: 44 Posted: 4 Apr 2014 Last revised: 15 Mar 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
B Ayers , C Lefanowicz , J Robinson
Shareholder taxes in acquisition premiums: the effect of capital gains taxation
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,332
RANK
275,235
6 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies