Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can the Multilateral Tax Treaty Help Overcoming the Treaty Shopping Issue

53 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2015 Last revised: 7 Nov 2015

Marco De Roni

Independent

Date Written: June 18, 2015

Abstract

One of the currently main challenges of International Tax Law is addressing the treaty abuse deployed by various multinationals. These, by taking advantage of their freedom of movement and establishment, have the chance to refine and enlighten their tax burdens by involving third countries and their tax relationship, therefore gaining arguable and controversial profits.

This phenomenon has steadily grown, reaching nowadays the extent where many countries around the world are concerned given the fewer tax revenues. Amongst the most infamous business, newspapers reported Apple, Google, Ikea, Pepsi, Amazon and P&G, whose strategies proved being effective.

What is now left to the countries is finding a strategy to curb abuses of law. At this regard, seen the inefficiency of Bilateral Tax Treaties, various legal devices were tested along the years but none of them led to a proper solution. Moreover, constraints arising from European Law may look like inflicting the coup de grace on the residual hope.

Although it would look consequent that Tax Law cannot offer a proper antidote, the countermeasure planned by the OECD may finally help resolving these issues: a Multilateral Tax Treaty.

With it, it would be possible to involve several countries in a single lawsuit, thus facilitating exchange of information and sharing of opinions.

Yet, a Multilateral Treaty in this field, although wished for since almost two decades, still needs a proper tailoring to the current panorama with the right legal measures and this is why an International Conference was announced for 2015.

Therefore, what is a Multilateral Tax Treaty and can it face this challenge? How should it be drafted and which provisions should it contain? Are there alternatives to it?

With this thesis, I will try to provide an answer to these questions above and explaining how a possible failure could lead to an utterly grim scenario. Moreover, based on both current knowledge and personal prompts, I will try to hypothesise which provisions should this contain, by taking into account past successes and failures of similar treaties and legal principles of International law.

Keywords: Tax, Law, Multilateral, Treaty, Bilateral, OECD, International Conference, Treaty Shopping, Abuse

Suggested Citation:

De Roni, Marco, How Can the Multilateral Tax Treaty Help Overcoming the Treaty Shopping Issue (June 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2629727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2629727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Developing a Multilateral Instrument to Modify Bilateral Tax Treaties, OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project
OECD Posted: 2014
Richard L Reinhold
Crossref
Michael J Graetz
A Multilateral Solution for the Income Tax Treatment of Interest Expenses
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 62 , issue 486 Posted: 2008-11
Jacques Malherbe
The Issue of Dispute Resolution and Introduction of a Multilateral Tax Treaty , volume 43 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
249,957
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies