Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of 'Check the Box' on U.S. Multinational Tax Rates

33 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2015

Amy E. Dunbar

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Andrew Duxbury

James Madison University

Date Written: June 28, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines changes in current foreign effective tax rates for U.S. versus foreign multinational corporations (MNCs) after a U.S. tax change known as check-the-box (CTB) became effective. We find that U.S. MNCs reported current foreign effective tax rates that declined approximately 9 percentage points more than foreign MNCs in the post-CTB period, suggesting that CTB allowed these U.S. firms to engage in more effective foreign tax planning. Because the U.S. taxes foreign income up to the U.S. tax rate when repatriated, we examine whether these foreign tax savings were maintained, or whether they were offset by additional U.S. tax. We find no significant change in U.S. tax rates on foreign income in the post-CTB period suggesting that more foreign earnings were retained offshore after CTB became effective. Thus, CTB likely played a role in maintaining the competitive balance between U.S. and foreign MNCs worldwide effective tax rates as found in prior studies. Finally, given the significant change in foreign effective tax rates, we examine whether investors reacted to CTB announcements, but we do not find a stock price response.

Keywords: Check the Box, International Tax, Tax Avoidance, Repatriation Policy

Suggested Citation:

Dunbar, Amy E. and Duxbury, Andrew, The Effect of 'Check the Box' on U.S. Multinational Tax Rates (June 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2630738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2630738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Three Parties in the Race to the Bottom: Host Governments, Home Governments and Multinational Companies
Florida Tax Review , volume 7 Posted: 2005
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Yaron Lahav
The Effective Tax Rate of the Largest US and EU Multinationals
U of Michigan Law & Econ, Empirical Legal Studies Center Paper No. 11-015, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 255 Pages: 17 Posted: 25 Oct 2011 Last revised: 18 Sep 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst Coverage and Intangible Assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L A Bryant-Kutcher , D A Guenther , M Jackson
How do cross-country differences in corporate tax rates affect firm value
Journal of the American Taxation Association no , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jost Heckemeyer , Pia Olligs , Michael Overesch
Intangibles in the World of Transfer Pricing
, p. 49 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sarah Khalil , Miles Romney , Steven Utke
Does Tax Deductibility Affect Goodwill Impairment Decisions?
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 117 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,169
RANK
290,067
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies