Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unitary Taxation: Tax Base and the Role of Accounting

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2015

Prem Sikka

Essex Business School

Richard Murphy

Tax Research LLP

Date Written: April 21, 2015

Abstract

For more than twenty years there have been discussions on the issue of multinational corporations shifting profits from high- to low-tax jurisdictions, with resulting gains to them from the resulting reduction in their effective tax rate. Underpinning much of this debate has been an implicit assumption that, first of all, profits are a fixed and constant known factor in this tax base-shifting equation; and, secondly, that by adopting consistent international financial reporting standards (IFRSs) the risk of arbitraging on tax is removed from this equation. Arguments for unitary taxation have particularly advanced this assumption.

We seek to show that the relationship between tax and financial reporting is now remote, and that no jurisdiction that we can identify relies upon unadjusted traditional accounting profit as a basis for the taxation of corporate income. This paper argues that this problem would, if anything, increase with dependence upon IFRSs, which serve entirely different purposes. IFRSs contain many subjective elements within their concepts of income and expenses, to provide the certainty that tax reporting requires. We draw instead upon the thinking underpinning the European Union’s (EU’s) Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB), to suggest that tax-specific measures of income and expenses for taxation purposes need to be defined. Such a transactional approach provides a potential basis for developing unitary taxation and determining a taxation base that could then be apportioned to each jurisdiction. However, in the practical political context the EU needs to be sensitive to the interests of member states, which have an interest in adopting particular ways of dealing with deductibility of interest, royalty payments and allowances for capital expenditure. In order to secure political momentum for change, we suggest that for the time being such contentious matters be deferred by allowing relief on these items to be granted at a national level after apportionment of other income between participating states in a regional unitary tax system. The paper then makes some suggestions for the development of a conceptual framework for taxation accounting standards that could be used to address these issues.

Keywords: tax avoidance; accounting; transfer pricing; accounting standards; unitary taxation

Suggested Citation:

Sikka, Prem and Murphy, Richard, Unitary Taxation: Tax Base and the Role of Accounting (April 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2633997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2633997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Accounting Standards Steering Committee Posted: 1975
Crossref
Actionaid
Submission to the International Monetary Fund's Consultation on Economic 'Spillovers' in International Taxation
Calling Time Posted: 2012-05
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A. Clausing , Michael C. Durst
Allocating Business Profits for Tax Purposes: A Proposal to Adopt a Formulary Profit Split
U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 09-003, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 138 Pages: 67 Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Feb 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Baskerville , L Evans
The darkening glass: Issues for translation of IFRS Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,082
RANK
116,469
7 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies