Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Fairness by Convention: A Defense of Horizontal Equity

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 2, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2015 Last revised: 5 Apr 2016

Ira Lindsay

University of Surrey - School of Law

Date Written: April 4, 2016

Abstract

Horizontal equity is the principle that people who earn equal income should owe equal tax. It has gotten a bad name. Although horizontal equity remains a textbook criterion of tax fairness, scholarly literature is largely hostile. Scholars ranging from the legal theorist Louis Kaplow to philosophers Thomas Nagel and Liam Murphy question its conceptual coherence and normative significance. The crux of the case against horizontal equity is that it seems irrational to worry about the relationship between pre-tax income and tax obligations rather than determining tax policy in light of what our best theory of distributive justice tells us is the best post-tax outcome. I argue that horizontal equity is best understood as a compromise principle for people who disagree about deeper principles of distributive justice. The debate over horizontal equity reflects two distinct ways of thinking about fairness. One approach starts with principles that specify a just distribution of income, resources or utility and uses these principles to derive appropriate tax laws. A second approach analyzes fairness norms as stable and mutually advantageous compromises between people who have conflicting interests and differing moral commitments. Proponents and opponents of redistributive taxation can agree that at any given level of redistribution they will each be better off if taxes are horizontally equitable. Horizontally equitable taxation can thus prevent rent-seeking and ideological conflict over tax policy from generating a wasteful patchwork of narrow taxes and tax subsidies. Observing horizontal equity may be unimportant when people agree on ideal principles of justice and the relevant empirical facts. But under more usual conditions of deep moral and empirical disagreement over tax policy, treating pre-tax income as a normative baseline can prevent conflict over distributive questions from leading to wasteful and inequitable tax policy.

Keywords: Taxation, Tax, Equity, Fairness

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Ira, Tax Fairness by Convention: A Defense of Horizontal Equity (April 4, 2016). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Erich Kirchler , The Economic , Of
BEHAVIOUR , volume 167 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Alex See , Raskolnikov
Clearly, not every taxpayer is a rational gamer straight out of Gary Becker's model of crime and punishment
Revealing Choices: Using Taxpayer Choice to Target Tax Enforcement, 109 COLUM. L. REV , volume 689 Posted: 2009
J Michael , Graetz , L Louis , Wilde
Application of the standard economic theory of crime to tax avoidance . . . produces an unambiguous prediction of behavior: throughout the 1970s no one should have paid the taxes they owed , volume 355 Posted: 1985
Eric Posner
Law and Social Norms: the Case of Tax Compliance
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
206,880
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie Settings. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies