Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Reinvestment Plans: A Tax-Based Incentive Under the Australian Imputation Tax System

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015

19 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2015

Mathew Abraham

Notre Dame University, Sydney Campus

Michael J. Dempsey

Ton Duc Thang University (TDTU)

Alastair Marsden

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 25, 2015

Abstract

An innovative feature of the Australian tax code is the provision of "imputation tax credits" that reduce the effective tax paid by Australian investors on dividends received from Australian firms. The feature is generally regarded as providing a tax incentive for corporations or firms subject to Australian corporate tax to distribute available cash to investors rather than seeking to retain the firm’s profits. More recently in Australia, dividend reinvestment plans (DRPs) have been increasingly utilised by firms that allow investors to have their cash dividends automatically reinvested in new shares issued by the firm. Such plans offer firms an alternative source of equity capital to either retention- or stock-financed equity capital. This article demonstrates the link between the tax liabilities of investors and the propensity of firms to avail themselves of a DRP innovation. We argue that the increasing use of DRPs in the Australian equity market subsequent to the introduction of the imputation tax system can be explained by tax-saving efficiencies that allow the firm the opportunity to lower its cost of financial capital. From a policy perspective, this will act to stimulate overall investment.

Keywords: dividend policy; dividend reinvestment plan; imputation; franking credits; taxes

JEL Classification: G35, H25

Suggested Citation:

Abraham, Mathew Puravady and Dempsey, Michael J. and Marsden, Alastair D.E., Dividend Reinvestment Plans: A Tax-Based Incentive Under the Australian Imputation Tax System (March 25, 2015). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2636667
Purchase - $45
6 References
S Armitage , L Hodgkinson , G Partington
The market value of UK dividends from shares with differing entitlements
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 33 , p. 220 - 244 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Mcdonald
Cross-border investing with tax arbitrage: the case of German dividend tax credits
Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 617 - 657 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Dempsey , G Partington
The cost of capital equations under the Australian imputation tax system
Accounting and Finance , volume 48 , p. 439 - 460 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A E Woo , H P Lange
Equity raising by Australian small business
Small Enterprise Research , volume 1 , p. 53 - 62 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies