Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience

52 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2015 Last revised: 22 Sep 2015

Hanwen Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Song Tang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy; Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - Institute of Accounting and Finance

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Daoguang Yang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)-Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 2015

Abstract

One institutional feature behind China’s spectacular economic growth is its political selection system, which it uses to promote officials who are capable of growing local economies. Against this backdrop, we examine how political turnovers cyclically influence firms’ tax avoidance behavior. Consistent with the prediction that newly appointed local leaders tend to collect more taxes to expand fiscal expenditures and boost local economies, we find that state-owned enterprises (SOEs) decrease their tax avoidance behavior after new leaders take office. However, this finding does not hold for non-SOEs. Our analyses also reveal that the political turnover effect on SOEs’ tax positions is stronger when the incoming leaders have more political clout to command favors from SOEs, managers’ incentives to divert resources are stronger, or politician-manager networks are more likely to work. Furthermore, SOEs that undertake less aggressive tax positions following turnovers receive more government subsidies in the future. Overall, our findings suggest that political incentives shape the tax planning activities of local SOEs in a “two-way favor exchange” manner.

Keywords: Political cycle, Tax avoidance, Agency problem

JEL Classification: H26, E32, P26, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hanwen and Tang, Song and Wu, Donghui and Yang, Daoguang, The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience (September 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2640111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review Posted: 2015
Crossref
Vladimir A. Atanasov , Bernard S. Black
The Trouble with Instruments: The Need for Pre-Treatment Balance in Shock-IV Designs
Management Science, Forthcoming, Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper 16-01, ECGI - Finance Working Paper, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 15-26 Pages: 69 Posted: 12 Apr 2015 Last revised: 19 Nov 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
9 Citations
Kam C. Chan , Xuanyu Jiang , Donghui Wu , Nianhang Xu , Hong Zeng
When Is the Client King? Evidence from Affiliated‐Analyst Recommendations in China's Split‐Share Reform
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1044 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Tingting Zhang , Xinmin Zhang , Daoguang Yang
Does industrial policy suppress corporate tax avoidance? —— a study on the perspective of provincial industrial policy
China Journal of Accounting Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 143 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Hanwen Chen , Daoguang Yang , Xinmin Zhang , Nan Zhou
The Moderating Role of Internal Control in Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a COSO-Based Internal Control Index in China
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 23 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Kenny Z. Lin , Lillian F. Mills , Fang Zhang , Yongbo Li
Do Political Connections Weaken Tax Enforcement Effectiveness?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 1941 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,721
RANK
10,280
9 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies