Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IT Environment Quality and Effectiveness of Controls Over the Tax Function and Income Tax Avoidance

51 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2015

Sabrina Chi

CSU Fullerton

Morton Pincus

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Jaclyn Prentice

University of Central Oklahoma

Vernon J. Richardson

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Date Written: July 10, 2015

Abstract

The complexity and frequent changes of multi-jurisdictional tax requirements generate a demand for a robust supporting information environment. If a firm’s information technology (IT) environment is not able to handle these tax complexities, that inability increases the risk of errors in the firm’s financial accounting for income taxes and the risk of ineffective tax avoidance strategies. We initially investigate the relation between IT-related material weaknesses (MWs) and tax-related MWs and find that having an IT-related MW is associated with a higher probability of having a tax-related MW. We then examine whether the quality of a firm’s IT environment influences its tax avoidance effectiveness. In addition, we find firms that restate their financial statements are more likely to disclose IT-related and tax-related MWs in advance of the year they announce that they must restate. We also show that having an IT-related MW hinders tax avoidance and that firms having a CFO with IT expertise or receiving the Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise award are also positively associated with tax avoidance. Our results are consistent with the idea that when firms have higher quality IT environments, they are more likely to have more effective controls over the tax function and similarly their tax avoidance efforts are more effective.

Keywords: Information technology, material weaknesses, accounting for income taxes, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Sabrina and Pincus, Morton P.K. and Prentice, Jaclyn and Richardson, Vernon J., IT Environment Quality and Effectiveness of Controls Over the Tax Function and Income Tax Avoidance (July 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640832 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2640832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Patricia Navarro , Sean W.G. Robb , Steve G. Sutton , Martin Weisner
The Cost Stickiness of Information Technology Material Weaknesses: An Intertemporal Comparison between IT-Related and Other Material Weaknesses
52 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2018 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
213,115
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies