Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Legality Matter? The Case of Tax Avoidance and Evasion

FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 19/2015

38 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Matthias Braune

Free University of Berlin (FUB)

Jochen Hundsdoerfer

Free University of Berlin (FUB); Norwegian Center for Taxation; ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: August 13, 2015

Abstract

Previous research argues that law expresses social values and could, therefore, influence individual behavior independently of enforcement and penalization. Using three laboratory experiments on tax avoidance and evasion, we study how legality affects individuals’ decisions. We find that, without any risk of negative financial consequences, the qualification of tax minimization as illegal versus legal reduces tax minimization considerably. Legislators can thus, in principle, affect subjects’ decisions by defining the borderline between legality and illegality. However, once we introduce potential negative financial consequences, legality does not affect tax minimization. Only if we use moral priming to increase subjects’ moral cost do we again find a legality effect on tax minimization. Overall, this demonstrates the limitations of the expressive function of law. Legality appears to be an important determinant of behavior only if we consider activities with no or low risk of negative financial consequences or if subjects are morally primed.

Keywords: Expressive Law, Legality, Moral Appeals, Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, Real Effort Experiment

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H20, H30, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Braune, Matthias and Hundsdoerfer, Jochen and Jacob, Martin, Does Legality Matter? The Case of Tax Avoidance and Evasion (August 13, 2015). FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 19/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2643636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,212
RANK
213,115
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies