Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealthy Tax Non-Filers in a Developing Country: Taxpayer Knowledge, Perceived Corruption and Service Orientation in Pakistan

27 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Katharina Gangl

University of Göttingen; Zeppelin University

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Christian Lorenz

University of Applied Sciences and Technology Aachen (RWTH Aachen); University of Muenster

Benno Torgler

Queensland University of Technology; CREMA; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Date Written: August 13, 2015

Abstract

Although tax non-filing and the resulting tax evasion are a challenge to public welfare, particularly in developing countries, scholarly knowledge on taxable citizens who do not register as taxpayers, also known as the ‘ghosts’, is minimal. To expand this knowledge base, this empirical paper compares rich self-employed individuals identified as non-filers with a randomized group of tax filers with similar socio-demographic backgrounds in terms of two bases of perceived tax system legitimacy: knowledge of taxpayers’ rights and perceived corruption in the tax administration. The results indicate not only that that both of these factors are related to tax non-filing but that a perceived service orientation of the tax administration is related to increased tax knowledge and lower perceptions of corruption. These findings imply that services which reduce citizens’ ignorance of their tax rights and reduce doubts about authorities’ correct behaviour might foster perceived legitimacy of the tax system and in turn increase willingness to pay taxes in developing countries.

Keywords: Wealthy tax non-filers, tax morale, tax compliance, tax knowledge, knowledge of rights, corruption, tax evasion, developing countries, Pakistan

JEL Classification: H26, O17, E26, H70, I30

Suggested Citation:

Gangl, Katharina and Gangl, Katharina and Kirchler, Erich and Lorenz, Christian and Torgler, Benno, Wealthy Tax Non-Filers in a Developing Country: Taxpayer Knowledge, Perceived Corruption and Service Orientation in Pakistan (August 13, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2643456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Muehlbacher , E Kirchler , H Schwarzenberger
Voluntary versus enforced tax compliance: Empirical evidence for the "slippery slope" framework
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 97 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2012-13
Population Studies (NIPS) and ICF International Posted: 2013
P Niemirowski , S Baldwin , A J Wearning
Tax related behaviours, beliefs, attitudes and values and taxpayer compliance in Australia
Journal of Australian Taxation , volume 1 , p. 132 - 165 Posted: 2003
Oecd
Citizen-state relations: Improving governance through tax reform Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,019
RANK
187,977
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies