Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Destination Taxation and Evasion: Evidence from U.S. Inter-State Commodity Flows

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 57, No. 1, February 2014

16 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2015

William F. Fox

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration

LeAnn Luna

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration - Center for Business and Economic Research

Georg Schaur

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2014

Abstract

Tax evasion has been an important issue in the accounting literature for several decades, but the focus has been on corporate income taxes. We develop a new way to examine tax evasion that focuses on corporate transactions, rather than corporate profits. Specifically, we examine how commodity flows respond to destination sales taxes, allowing for tax evasion as a function of distance between trade partners. After accounting for transportation costs, we find that the effect of taxes decreases as distance increases. This is consistent with the notion that longer distances between trade partners hinder government oversight and increase the likelihood of successful tax evasion. Our results are robust with respect to outliers, strategic neighbor effects, information sharing agreements and other re-specifications. These results are important to policymakers because they evidence the difficulty of enforcing destination taxation in open economies such as U.S. states and the European Union.

Keywords: Taxation, Evasion, Multijurisdictional

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Fox, William F. and Luna, LeAnn and Schaur, Georg, Destination Taxation and Evasion: Evidence from U.S. Inter-State Commodity Flows (February 1, 2014). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 57, No. 1, February 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2644417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J E Anderson , E Van Wincoop
Gravity with gravitas: a solution to the border puzzle
Am. Econ. Rev , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 170 - 192 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Bruce , W Fox , L Luna
State and local sales tax revenue losses from E-commerce
State Tax Notes , volume 61 , issue 18 Posted: 2009-05
C Cameron , J Gelbach , D Miller
Robust inference with multi-way clustering
J. Bus. Econ. Stat , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 238 - 249 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Delgado , M Porter , S Stern
J. Econ. Geogr , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 495 - 518 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Marcel Olbert , Ann-Catherin Werner
Consumption Taxes and Multinational Tax Planning in the Digital Age - Evidence from the European Service Sector
51 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2019 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 270
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lisa De Simone , Marcel Olbert
How Do Multinational Companies Respond to Destination-based Taxes?
73 Pages · Posted: 7 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 22 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 849
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
451,566
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies