Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surcharges and Penalties in UK Tax Law

In R. Seer and A.L. Wilms (eds.), Surcharges and Penalties in Tax Law (Amsterdam: IBFD, 2016)

38 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2015 Last revised: 7 Jan 2020

Rita de la Feria

University of Leeds

Parintira Tanawong

Durham University - Law School

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper reviews the tax penalties' regime in the UK, in the context of a general anti-evasion policy. It argues that the global economic crisis has had a significant impact in the UK surcharges and penalties system, intensifying the process initiated before, towards a much tougher regime. This new approach can be explained party on the basis of traditional considerations, such of deterrence and punishment; there is the suspicion, however, that it may be also based on other considerations, namely as an additional source of revenue, or as compensatory measure for the revenue lost through fraud. It concludes that tax penalties whose ratio is no longer (solely) deterrence are disproportionate, and as such, contrary to EU law, and the ECHR.

Keywords: Tax penalties, tax fraud

Suggested Citation:

de la Feria, Rita and Tanawong, Parintira, Surcharges and Penalties in UK Tax Law (July 1, 2015). In R. Seer and A.L. Wilms (eds.), Surcharges and Penalties in Tax Law (Amsterdam: IBFD, 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2648049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2648049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
There is doubt over the strength of evidence and HMRC wants to test it by crossexamination at a tribunal
An issue needs to be clarified judicially so that the precedent gained can be applied to other cases
Tax Law Safeguard
Crossref
Court Procedural Rules; on these claims see K. Stricklin-Coutinho
July, 7. 102 Tax disputes: Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) guidance, available at Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,432
RANK
268,746
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies