Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Know-How for Transfer Price Benchmarking

Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2013, Vol. 1, No. 1, 27-38

12 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2015

Roberto Moro Visconti

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

Companies’ added value, even due to the expansion of the knowledge economy, is increasingly immaterial, and so is their taxable base: hence the importance of know-how, in spite of its ambiguous nature, to be tackled with an interdisciplinary accounting, financial and fiscal approach. Due to their immaterial nature, intangibles such as know-how are frequently negotiated within multinational groups, so becoming sensible to transfer pricing issues, which also depend on complex international accounting standards, with manifold corporate governance implications. OECD guidelines address the intricate problem trying to adapt standard transfer pricing methods to specific circumstances, but uncontrolled comparisons remain an uphill task, even if international accounting principles and market best practices may provide some useful hints for appraisal. To the extent that intangibles are unique, they cannot paradoxically be universal, so challenging arm’s length comparisons. Fair value market valuations, based also on critical accounting, consequently represent an uneasy and slippery benchmark. The optimal target is to disarticulate, on both economic and accounting terms, the value chain that rotates around know-how, attributing its belonging pieces to single taxpayers, so identifying a fair taxable base within each country, remembering that know-how is the engine behind growth ... and taxes.

Keywords: know-how, IAS 38, tax accounting, arm’s length, information asymmetries, intangibles valuation

Suggested Citation:

Moro Visconti, Roberto, Evaluating Know-How for Transfer Price Benchmarking (April 24, 2013). Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2013, Vol. 1, No. 1, 27-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2650327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Hall
A framework linking intangible resources and capabilites to sustainable competitive advantage
Strategic Management Journal , volume 14 , p. 607 - 618 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Yi , H Davey , I R C Eggleton
Towards a comprehensive theoretical framework for voluntary IC disclosure
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 585 Posted: 2011
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
X Zhao , L Gong
Optimal Income Taxation with Information Asymmetry: The Lagrange Multiplier Approach
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
202,182
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies