Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Shareholder-Level Taxes on Organizational Form and Stock Ownership: Evidence from Equity Carve-Outs of Master Limited Partnerships

The Accounting Review, Vol. 94, No. 1, January 2019

Posted: 6 Sep 2015 Last revised: 16 Mar 2019

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 30, 2018

Abstract

I examine the role of heterogeneous shareholder-level taxes in organizational form decisions and in subsequent changes in investor stock ownership. Specifically, I investigate the decision to form a master limited partnership (MLP), which is a tax-advantaged entity for tax-sensitive shareholders but a tax-disadvantaged entity for tax-exempt shareholders. Consistent with shareholder-level taxes influencing organizational form decisions, I find that firms owned by more tax-exempt shareholders are less likely to carve-out MLPs. Consistent with shareholder-level taxes influencing stock ownership, I find that tax-sensitive investors, on average, decrease their ownership in the parent and hold a relatively larger ownership share in the MLP than in the parent after the carve-out. In contrast, tax-exempt investors own less of the MLP than of the parent. These results provide evidence that firms cater to investors’ shareholder-level taxes in making organizational form decisions and that investors sort on tax characteristics inherent to organizational form.

Keywords: Organizational Form, Master Limited Partnerships, Equity Carve-Outs, Tax-Sensitivity, Shareholder-Level Taxes, Tax Clienteles

JEL Classification: G32, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Utke, Steven, The Effect of Shareholder-Level Taxes on Organizational Form and Stock Ownership: Evidence from Equity Carve-Outs of Master Limited Partnerships (April 30, 2018). The Accounting Review, Vol. 94, No. 1, January 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2656429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2656429
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies