Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Small Businesses Respond to an Increase in the Probability of a Tax Audit? Evidence from a Policy Reform in Italy

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 308

41 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2015

Alessandro Santoro

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Economics, Psychology & Social Sciences (CISEPS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Date Written: September 6, 2015

Abstract

This paper uses a panel of administrative data concerning 71,000 Italian small businesses observed in tax years 2005-2008. The aim of the paper is to evaluate the impact of a reform of audit rules implemented in 2006. The reform repealed a special audit exemption previously granted to businesses which adopted a stringent accounting standard. It is shown that the reform increased the level of economic activity, as measured by the value of inventory, for the generality of businesses involved. However, an increase in profits and turnover was reported only by the subset of businesses which were more likely to perceive it as an increase in the probability of an audit. This result is in line with the predictions of the Allingham-Sandmo model and it casts some doubts on the possibility to reduce evasion by limiting the opportunities of manipulating accounting books.

Keywords: Tax Evasion by Small Businesses, Audit Probability, Accounting Standard

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Santoro, Alessandro, Do Small Businesses Respond to an Increase in the Probability of a Tax Audit? Evidence from a Policy Reform in Italy (September 6, 2015). University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 308, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2656711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
A Sandmo
The theory of tax evasion: A retrospective view
National Tax Journal , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 63 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Santoro
Taxpayers'choices under studi di settore: What do we know and how we can interpret it? Giornale degli Economisti , volume 67 Posted: 2008
Figure 1: Variation in the value of inventories 40
Load more
1 Citations
Giancarlo Ferrara , Arianna Campagna , Vincenzo Atella
Disentangling Tax Evasion from Inefficiency in Firms Tax Declaration: An Integrated Approach
CEIS Working Paper No. 468 · 28 Pages · Posted: 6 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 16 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,432
RANK
627,303
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies