Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Maturity and Tax Avoidance

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2015

Petya Platikanova

ESADE - Ramon Llull University

Date Written: July 2015

Abstract

This study proposes and empirically tests the argument that creditors are likely to extend debt with a shorter maturity to tax-avoiding firms so that they can frequently reevaluate tax-related risk in debt contracting. Using effective tax rates and uncertain tax benefits as a proxy for tax avoidance, I find that tax-avoiding firms have a larger proportion of short-maturity debt compared to other firms. The empirical findings further show that firms with unsustainable tax positions and with subsidiaries in tax-haven countries are more likely to employ short-maturity debt. Collectively, the empirical findings suggest that frequent debt renegotiations increase the exposure of tax-avoiding firms to credit supply shocks, contributing to their higher demand for cash.

Keywords: tax avoidance, debt maturity, tax audit risk

Suggested Citation:

Platikanova, Petya, Debt Maturity and Tax Avoidance (July 2015). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2664021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
The financial structure of the firm and the problem of control
European Economic Review , volume 33 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 286 - 293 Posted: 1989
Crossref
A Auerbach , J Poterba
Tax loss carryforwards and corporate tax incentives. Working Paper 1863 Posted: 1986
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J Blouin , W Guay
Does tax aggressiveness reduce corporate transparency? Working papers Posted: 2012
M Barclay , C Smith
The maturity structure of corporate debt
The Journal of Finance , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 609 - 631 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
466
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,526
RANK
141,220
8 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies