Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mirrlees Review's Good Tax System: 'Old World' Versus 'New World' Professor Opinions

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015

26 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2015

Paul Kenny

Flinders University

Date Written: June 30, 2015

Abstract

This article examines the relevance of the 2012 UK Mirrlees Review’s findings for its “good tax system” for taxpayers in the UK, Australia and New Zealand. This qualitative study on the Mirrlees Review’s findings identifies and interviews a number of tax professors and an economist in these three comparable small to medium sized OECD countries. The three countries have similar cultural, social, economic and political customs and institutions that also facilitate a good comparison.

This article finds considerable consensus for much of the Mirrlees Review’s good tax system with recent tax reviews in Australia (the 2009 Henry Review) and New Zealand (the 2010 Buckle Review), all preferring land tax, broad income and value‑added tax regimes. Reflecting this, a high level of consensus was found among the respondents for much of the good tax system. The responses also highlight a number of contentious areas that provide scope for further research. The respondents strongly agreed that political factors dominated tax design in the three countries. The responses further suggested that major tax reform is difficult but possible in the right circumstances. How to successfully achieve tax reform looms as a key area for further research.

Suggested Citation:

Kenny, Paul, The Mirrlees Review's Good Tax System: 'Old World' Versus 'New World' Professor Opinions (June 30, 2015). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2666304
Purchase - $45
12 References
Henry Review , p. 84 - 85
Crossref
Buckle Review , volume 1
Crossref
Mirrlees Review
Mirrlees Review
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies