Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Business Owners' Attitudes Toward GST Compliance: A Preliminary Study

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 3, 2015

34 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2015

Lynley Woodward

Southern Institute of Technology

Lin Mei Tan

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

A significant body of research both internationally and in New Zealand has been devoted to understanding the factors that influence compliance with tax law. Early studies on compliance were primarily focused on individuals and income tax. Recent comprehensive reviews of the literature indicate that groups of taxpayers, such as small businesses, and compliance with other tax types, such as consumption taxes, remain under-explored.

To contribute to the extant literature, this preliminary study extends prior work on the compliance attitudes or behaviour of small business owners (SBOs) by focusing on their tax attitudes toward New Zealand’s goods and services tax (GST) system. In particular, their perceptions of deterrence (eg chance of being audited or penalised), tax morale, social norms (eg other business taxpayer’s compliance attitudes), perception of the tax system (eg fairness, complexity, tax burden), and tax administration (eg trust in authority) are examined.

The results show some evidence of “mental accounting” which is in line with Adams and Webley’s study. Not all SBOs perceived the GST system as being reasonably simple or easy to understand. Many owners also indicated that they relied on accounting software packages for recording their GST transactions and they appeared to assume their tax practitioners would pick up any errors they make. The results further indicate that tax penalty and tax audit are salient in the minds of SBOs. The majority of SBOs always tried to file a correct and timely tax return in view of the potential cost of incurring penalties for not doing so. Although the tax system was perceived as being reasonably simple, issues relating to internet transactions and GST on imports, and the burden of compliance cost of GST were particularly frustrating to SBOs. They also had different personal experiences in their dealings with Inland Revenue and different perceptions of Inland Revenue’s fairness. The SBOs’ GST morale with regards to proper invoicing and classification of goods and services was found to be positive. The majority would not feel good in falsifying invoices or misclassifying goods or services, although some suspected others did engage in such activities. Many are also aware of customers’ preference to pay cash to business owners to avoid GST and one-third of the sampled owners even admitted doing so themselves. These insights have several implications for tax authorities.

Suggested Citation:

Woodward, Lynley and Tan, Lin Mei, Small Business Owners' Attitudes Toward GST Compliance: A Preliminary Study (June 17, 2015). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2666317
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,297
RANK
216,737
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies