Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing: Increasing Tension between Multinational Firms and Tax Authorities

Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (2) p. 65-73

9 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2016

Wray E. Bradley

University of Tulsa

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Transfer pricing taxation is a significant source of tension between Multinational Firms (MNFs) and tax authorities. The tension relates to the different perspectives of MNFs and tax authorities. MNFs view taxes related to transfer prices as costs to avoid. On the other hand, regulators and tax authorities view taxes related to transfer pricing from the perspective of making sure that MNFs pay their fair share of taxes to the country or territory where MNFs generate profits. Previously, the U.S. was the primary world leader in the area of transfer pricing taxation. The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) have replaced the U.S in this role. The new OECD project titled Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) will dramatically change transfer pricing taxation, on a worldwide basis. It also has the potential to affect change in foreign direct investment (FDI). These changes will take place in both developed and underdeveloped countries. This article informs regulators, tax authorities, MNF management, academics, and tax professionals about several major emerging issues related to BEPS. The article also informs accounting and taxation academics about future research needs in this area.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Tax Avoidance, Multinational Firms, Tax Regulation

JEL Classification: F23, H26, K34, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bradley, Wray E., Transfer Pricing: Increasing Tension between Multinational Firms and Tax Authorities (2015). Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (2) p. 65-73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2668878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
E Bartelsman , R Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance through Transfer Pricing in OECD Countries
Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper Posted: 2000
Crossref
Bbc News
Google, Amazon, Starbucks: The Rise of 'tax shaming'. Retrieved from The BBC News Magazine website Posted: 2013
T Buettner , M Overesch , G Wamser
Anti Profit-Shifting Rules and Foreign Direct Investment
CESifo Working Paper , issue 4710 Posted: 2014
Crossref
K Chan , A Lo , P Mo
An Empirical Analysis of the Changes in Tax Audit Focus on International Transfer pricing
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 24 , p. 94 - 104 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,528
RANK
95,579
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies