Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extent of Tax Stamp Evasion Among Categories of Informal Operators in Twifu Atti-Morkwa and Hemang Lower Denkyira Districts in Ghana

21 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2015

Stephen Amponsah

University of Cape Coast

Kofi Adu

University of Cape Coast

Date Written: October 7, 2015

Abstract

This study examined the extent of tax stamp evasion among categories of micro-business owners in Twifo-Atti Morkwa and Hemang Lower Denkyira districts in Ghana. Data were collected from taxpayers in the study area who qualify for tax stamps and interview schedule was used for the collection of the data from the respondents. In total, 305 taxpayers were interviewed. The study employed chi squared statistics as the analytical tool. Overall, the study found a significance association between extent of tax stamp evasion and categories of micro-business owners. The partitioned pearson’s chi2 revealed that there is a significant association between fashion designers and full tax stamp evasion; a significant association between partial tax stamp evasion and traditional caterers and a significant association between no tax stamp evasion and beauticians (hairdressers and barbers). This study strongly recommends that the Ghana Revenue Authority’s policy intended to curb tax evasion in the informal sector should be customized to meet the unique features of the various categories of the informal business operators. Besides, Ghana Revenue Authority should pay more attention to fashion designers in the informal sector.

Keywords: Tax stamp evasion, micro-business owners

Suggested Citation:

Amponsah, Stephen and Adu, Kofi, Extent of Tax Stamp Evasion Among Categories of Informal Operators in Twifu Atti-Morkwa and Hemang Lower Denkyira Districts in Ghana (October 7, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2670922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2670922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J Alm
Expanding the theory of tax compliance from individual to group motivations Posted: 1309
Crossref
T P Amoah
Small business owners' attitude towards tax stamp: A case study of taxpayers in Sekondi Posted: 2012
D Armah-Attoh , M Awal
Tax Administration in Ghana: The perceived institutional challenges Posted: 2013
S Asante , S A Baba
Tax compliance among self-employed in Ghana: Do demographic characteristics matter?
International Business and Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 86 - 91 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,654
RANK
658,539
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies