Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Temporary Tax Laws on Understanding and Predicting Corporate Earnings

48 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2015 Last revised: 18 Feb 2018

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: February 15, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent to which the expiration of a temporary tax law makes corporate earnings harder to predict and understand. Examining evidence from eight separate expirations of the R&D tax credit, I find that analysts’ forecast errors and abnormal volume increase surrounding quarterly earnings announcements for firms affected by the R&D tax credit. These increases suggest difficulties in forecasting and understanding earnings for R&D credit firms when the R&D tax credit is expired. In additional analysis, I find some evidence that the reason for the difficulty in prediction is a lack of information. The results of this study call attention to previously unexplored consequences of temporary tax laws, namely their ability to affect corporate earnings.

Keywords: earnings predictability, temporary tax law, R&D tax credit

JEL Classification: G38, G18, M41, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hoopes, Jeffrey L., The Effect of Temporary Tax Laws on Understanding and Predicting Corporate Earnings (February 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2671935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2671935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Alaxander
A Busy Lame-Duck Congress?
US News & World Report Posted: 2016
R Alexander
Tax extenders are ruining the GOP tax plan. The Hill
US News Posted: 2017-12-02
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-Based Causal Inference in Corporate Finance and Accounting Research Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,904
RANK
127,554
7 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies