Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Full Circle? The Single Tax Principle, BEPS, and the New US Model

1 Global Tax'n 12 (2016)

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 480

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-019

26 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2015 Last revised: 8 Jun 2016

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: October 13, 2015

Abstract

On October 5, 2015, the OECD and G20 released the final BEPS package. It included the following new preamble to the OECD model tax treaty:

(State A) and (State B)…Intending to conclude a Convention for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and on capital without creating opportunities for non-taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion or avoidance…

This language embodies the OECD and G20’s official commitment to preventing both double taxation and double non-taxation, i.e., to the single tax principle.

The official press release that accompanied the final package quoted OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria as stating that “[t]he measures we are presenting today represent the most fundamental changes to international tax rules in almost a century”. How innovative is the final BEPS package?

This paper will argue that while there is some innovation in BEPS, it is in fact more of a continuation that a sharp break with the past. Like Alexis de Tocqueville’s French Revolution, BEPS represents both continuity and change. In particular, the single tax principle has formed the theoretical basis of much of the international tax regime from the beginning. And it is in fact this continuity rather than any sharp change that gives the final BEPS package its promise to, as Secretary General Gurria also promised, “put an end to double non-taxation.”

Keywords: BEPS, US Model, Single Tax Principle

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Full Circle? The Single Tax Principle, BEPS, and the New US Model (October 13, 2015). 1 Global Tax'n 12 (2016), U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 480, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2673463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,496
RANK
111,747
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies