Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of Value Added Tax Flat Rate Scheme Compliance by Traders in Kumasi Metropolis, Ghana

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 2, April 2015, pp. 29-42

Posted: 13 Oct 2015

Dadson Awunyo-Vitor

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST)

Joseph Mbawuni

University of Education, Winneba - Department of Accounting Studies Education

Date Written: October 13, 2015

Abstract

Tax compliance is an important issue in every economy, given the role revenue from tax plays in national development. This paper attempts to reveal the determinants of the Value Added Tax (VAT) flat rate scheme compliance by traders in Kumasi metropolis in Ghana. Data for the study were obtained from a sample of 244 retail traders through the use of structured questionnaires. Descriptive statistics and the logistic regression model were used to analyze the data. The results suggested that a majority of the respondents are aware of the VAT Flat Rate Scheme (VFRS); however, less than 50% actually comply with the law. The logit regression result revealed that level of education, years of experience of the owner of the business, and knowledge of penalty for non-compliance significantly influence traders’ decision to comply with the VFRS. It is therefore recommended that Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA), particularly the Domestic Tax Division, should intensify education on the VFRS for the traders. This can be done in collaboration with the traders associations. Furthermore, the administration of tax returns should be simplified to encourage compliance.

Suggested Citation:

Awunyo-Vitor, Dadson and Mbawuni, Joseph, Drivers of Value Added Tax Flat Rate Scheme Compliance by Traders in Kumasi Metropolis, Ghana (October 13, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 2, April 2015, pp. 29-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673364
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
755
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies