Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minimalism about Residence and Source

38(2) Michigan Journal of International Law 245-269 (2017)

20 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2015 Last revised: 22 Sep 2017

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Date Written: October 20, 2015

Abstract

Many economists and legal scholars claim that the traditional conceptual and policy framework for international taxation is defunct. The examples they offer most often to support such claims are failures of residence- or source-based taxation to achieve a variety of normative objectives. This article suggests that there is a very different way of seeing why international taxation has become intellectually controversial. The key problem is not that the globalization of economic activities makes the traditional policy tools outdated; instead, it is that scholars and policymakers have more frequent occasions to disagree about the normative goals of international taxation. Thus most current controversies are actually about the articulation of ends and not the adequacy of means. To illustrate this perspective, this article offers a minimalist account of the meanings of the concepts of source and residence. The account, I argue, successfully deflects most skeptical arguments about residence and source, and shows that the purported inadequacy of the two concepts are consequences, not causes, of inadequate normative criteria for the design of international income taxation. The article also offers a novel analysis illustrating the inadequacy of the principle of avoiding double taxation: by ignoring the economic incidence of tax, devices purportedly mitigating double taxation in fact produce double non-taxation.

Keywords: international taxation, residence-based taxation, source-based taxation, source of income, tax residence, citizenship taxation, double taxation

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, Minimalism about Residence and Source (October 20, 2015). 38(2) Michigan Journal of International Law 245-269 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2677429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2677429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Professor Shaviro goes on to criticize foreign tax credit (FTC) mechanisms for offering a 100% "marginal reimbursement rate" for foreign tax paid, which he argues is too high from a national interest perspective. Like his critique of the aim of preventing double taxation, a critique of the FTC from a national interest perspective cannot easily be reformulated as a critique of the FTC as a mechanism of international coordination
The prevention of double taxation arguably figures much more prominently as a policy guide for international coordination than as a guide for domestic tax policy
Arnold Harberger
The incidence of the corporation income tax, 70
J. POLIT. ECON , volume 215 Posted: 1962
Crossref
Economists view even countries like the UK and Canada all as "small open economies
Load more
1 Citations
Wei Cui
The Superiority of the Digital Services Tax over Significant Digital Presence Proposals
National Tax Journal 72(4), 839-856 (2019) · 28 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 25 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 1,495
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,187
RANK
249,957
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies