Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disjunction between Corporate Residence and Corporate Taxation: Is Improvement Possible?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 1, 2015, p. 91

Posted: 23 Oct 2015

Geoffrey Loomer

University of Victoria - Faculty of Law; Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: October 22, 2015

Abstract

In this article, the author analyzes the concept of corporate residence, with particular reference to the law in the United Kingdom and Canada. Accepting that the taxation of corporations has some justification, there is nonetheless a disjunction between meaningful residence-based taxation and current definitions of corporate residence in domestic law and tax treaties. This disjunction occurs because the various legal meanings ascribed to corporate residence require little in the way of economic attachment to the purported home state. The author begins with a brief review of the phenomenon of tax-driven corporate mobility, followed by a summary of government responses to corporate mobility. In the main body of the article, he argues that residence concepts that were originally intended to reflect substantial activities of corporate management were largely eclipsed by legislated incorporation tests in the United Kingdom and Canada, and were otherwise devitalized by judicial interpretations of "central management and control" when applied to multinational enterprises. The author then argues that although the treaty concept of "place of effective management" has promise because it could denote real and substantive management, to date this interpretation has been eschewed by higher courts, at least in the case of corporations. Recent cases on the residence of trusts are noted because they illustrate a contrasting, and perhaps preferable, approach to entity residence. Given that current formulations of corporate residence appear to be deficient, the author makes tentative suggestions regarding how corporate residence definitions could be improved to focus on the objective reality or unreality of corporate establishment.

Keywords: Avoidance; corporations; residence; multinationals; Canada; United Kingdom.

Suggested Citation:

Loomer, Geoffrey, The Disjunction between Corporate Residence and Corporate Taxation: Is Improvement Possible? (October 22, 2015). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 1, 2015, p. 91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678223
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies