Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance with Strategic Auditors: An Experimental Study

59 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2015

Yutaro Murakami

Keio University

Satoshi Taguchi

Doshisha University

Date Written: October 26, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to experimentally investigate an analytical model of tax compliance, assuming a game-theoretic situation between a taxpayer and a tax auditor. Specifically, we focus on the following three research questions. First, would the taxpayer’s behavior change if the tax auditor is a human or a computer, ceteris paribus? Second, how do changes of the tax rate affect the taxpayer’s and auditor’s behavior? Third, what influence does personality have on the tax compliance of taxpayers?

The main results of this study are as follows. First, the taxpayer evades less when the tax auditor is a human than when it is a computer. Second, a decrease in the tax rate can increase the taxpayer’s tax compliance behavior. Third, the compliance rate increases among taxpayers who are younger, more trustworthy, and have lower levels of strategic reciprocity.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Game theory, Experiment

JEL Classification: H26, C72, C91

Suggested Citation:

Murakami, Yutaro and Taguchi, Satoshi, Tax Compliance with Strategic Auditors: An Experimental Study (October 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2680463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2680463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
Tax Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M L Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm , M B Cronshaw , M Mckee
Tax compliance with endogenous audit selection rules
Kyklos , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 45 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
354,141
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies