Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Service PE Threshold Under Article 5(1) and Article 5(2) with Focus on Disposal to Resolve Conflict of OECD Examples

International Fiscal Association, Ninth Annual Conference on International Taxation, September 18 & 19, 2015

6 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2015 Last revised: 3 Nov 2015

Sumeet Khurana

Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan

Date Written: September 18, 2015

Abstract

Rendering services in another jurisdiction generally do not create a Permanent Establishment under the basic rule of Article 5(1) because the service provider usually does not have a right of disposal over the premises of service recipient. Article 5(2)/(3) of some treaties contain special ‘service PE’ clause to tax services. Absent such clause, the taxability has to be tested under basic rule only and risk of PE creation arises because of ‘Painter example’ given in OECD Commentary which is widely criticised to have diluted PE threshold. Recently a South African court decision has even further diluted the threshold. In my recent article I have analysed OECD examples in the light of international jurisprudence and conclude that OECD Painter example is conceptually perfect and does not dilute the PE threshold while South African court decision does.

Suggested Citation:

Khurana, Sumeet, Service PE Threshold Under Article 5(1) and Article 5(2) with Focus on Disposal to Resolve Conflict of OECD Examples (September 18, 2015). International Fiscal Association, Ninth Annual Conference on International Taxation, September 18 & 19, 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2683910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2683910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
418,383
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies