Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practicing Experts’ Views on BEPS: A Critical Analysis

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 27

36 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

In July 2013 the OECD, to tackle multinational tax avoidance, published its Action Plan against base erosion and profit shifting. The Action Plan suggests a variety of legislative and administrative measures to eliminate frictions from interactions between domestic tax laws and international tax treaties, including potential double non‐taxation of businesses operating in several countries. By virtue of the OECD’s structure, the proposed measures have been designed and developed predominantly by representatives from the tax administrations of OECD member countries. Our research investigates the views and opinions of other stakeholders in this process, namely tax experts from practice. We conduct a conjoint analysis, surveying experts in international taxation regarding their perceptions and beliefs on the effectiveness of the proposed actions. We find that experts rank actions that are aimed at enhancing international coordination and cooperation, as well as actions that reduce legal uncertainty, higher than other actions. Of lesser importance are antitreaty‐abuse measures, further transparency at the taxpayer level and amendments to the definition of permanent establishment.

Keywords: BEPS, OECD, Conjoint Analysis, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: H26, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Petutschnig, Matthias, Practicing Experts’ Views on BEPS: A Critical Analysis (2015). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2683552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
K W Abbott , R O Keohane , A Moravcsik , A.-M Slaughter , D Snidal
The Concept of Legalization
International Organization , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 401 - 419 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K W Abbott , D Snidal
Hard and Soft Law in International Governance
International Organization , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 456 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Ault , J , W Schön , S Shay , E
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting: A Roadmap for Reform
Bulletin for International Fiscal Documentation , volume 68 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 275 - 279 Posted: 2014
D Baier , M Brusch
Conjoint Analyse Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
717
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,107
RANK
82,058
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies