Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealthy Tax Non-Filers in a Developing Nation: The Roles of Taxpayer Knowledge, Perceived Corruption and Service Orientation in Pakistan

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 26

27 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015

Katharina Gangl

University of Göttingen; Zeppelin University

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Christian Lorenz

University of Applied Sciences and Technology Aachen (RWTH Aachen); University of Muenster

Benno Torgler

Queensland University of Technology; CREMA; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Although tax non-filing and the resulting tax evasion are a challenge to public welfare, particularly in developing countries, scholarly knowledge on taxable citizens who do not register as taxpayers, also known as the ‘ghosts’, is minimal. To expand this knowledge base, this empirical paper compares rich self-employed individuals identified as non-filers with a randomized group of tax filers with similar socio-demographic backgrounds in terms of two bases of perceived tax system legitimacy: knowledge of taxpayers’ rights and perceived corruption in the tax administration. The results indicate not only that that both of these factors are related to tax non-filing but that a perceived service orientation of the tax administration is related to increased tax knowledge and lower perceptions of corruption. These findings imply that services which reduce citizens’ ignorance of their tax rights and reduce doubts about authorities’ correct behaviour might foster perceived legitimacy of the tax system and in turn increase willingness to pay taxes in developing countries.

Keywords: Wealthy tax non-filers, tax morale, tax compliance, tax knowledge, knowledge of rights, corruption, tax evasion, developing countries, Pakistan

JEL Classification: H26, O17, E26, H70, I30

Suggested Citation:

Gangl, Katharina and Gangl, Katharina and Kirchler, Erich and Lorenz, Christian and Torgler, Benno, Wealthy Tax Non-Filers in a Developing Nation: The Roles of Taxpayer Knowledge, Perceived Corruption and Service Orientation in Pakistan (2015). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2683548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Ali , O H Fjeldstad , I H Sjursen
To pay or not to pay? Citizens' attitudes towards taxation in Kenya
World Development , volume 64 , p. 828 - 842 Posted: 2014
J Alm , R Bahl , M N Murray
Tax base erosion in developing countries
Economic Development and Cultural Change , volume 39 , p. 849 - 872 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behaviour
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , p. 224 - 270 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,917
RANK
222,859
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Institutional & Transition Economics Policy Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies