Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income from Student Inventions and the Kiddie Tax

Posted: 3 Nov 2015

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Wanny Baez

Independent

Priscilla Ann Burnaby

Bentley University

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

Scientific revolutions, frequently led by the youngest scientists, are essential for the competitiveness of the U.S. economy. In 2008, the kiddie tax age limit was increased from 18 to 24 years, which expanded its coverage to full-time undergraduate and graduate students. Although Congress generally seeks to promote innovation, royalty income from student-created inventions is penalized because it is characterized as unearned income that is subject to the kiddie tax, a form of alternative minimum tax. The objective of the drafter of the kiddie tax was to cover income transferred from a parent’s to a child’s lower tax rate. Student inventors can employ tax planning strategies to avoid the kiddie tax on earnings from their patents provided they are aware of the kiddie tax provisions. The tax treatment of student inventor royalty income could not be discerned from primary sources of tax law or the JCT Bluebooks. It would be desirable for Congress to act and either eliminate the kiddie tax on the royalty income from student inventions or, at a minimum, disclose the legislative design of the provision and what it intends to accomplish so that those affected by it could plan accordingly.

Keywords: kiddie tax; student invention; patent; legislative design; earned income; unearned income

JEL Classification: H2, O31

Suggested Citation:

Muehlmann, Brigitte and Baez, Wanny and Burnaby, Priscilla Ann, Income from Student Inventions and the Kiddie Tax (July 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684721
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies