Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collective Labour Supply, Taxes, and Intrahousehold Allocation: An Empirical Approach

IZA Discussion Paper No. 9464

55 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2015 Last revised: 10 May 2025

Hans Bloemen

VU University Amsterdam; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Tinbergen Institute; Netspar

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Most empirical studies of the impact of labour income taxation on the labour supply behaviour of households use a unitary modelling approach. In this paper we empirically analyze income taxation and the choice of working hours by combining the collective approach for household behaviour and the discrete hours choice framework with fixed costs of work. We identify the sharing rule parameters with data on working hours of both the husband and the wife within a couple. Parameter estimates are used to evaluate various model outcomes, like the wage elasticities of labour supply and the impacts of wage changes on the intrahousehold allocation of income. We also simulate the consequences of a policy change in the tax system.We find that the collective model has different empirical outcomes of income sharing than a restricted model that imposes income pooling. In particular, a specification with income pooling fails to capture asymmetries in the income sharing across spouses. These differences in outcomes have consequences for the evaluation of policy changes in the tax system and shed light on the effectiveness of certain policies.

Keywords: intrahousehold allocation, household behaviour and family economics, labour supply, taxation, model construction and estimation

JEL Classification: J22, D1, D13, H24, C51

Suggested Citation:

Bloemen, Hans, Collective Labour Supply, Taxes, and Intrahousehold Allocation: An Empirical Approach. IZA Discussion Paper No. 9464, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Alesina , A Ichino , L Karabarbounis
Gender-based taxation and the division of family chores
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 3 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
P Apps , R Rees
Taxation and the household
Journal of Public Economics , volume 35 , p. 355 - 369 Posted: 1988
O Bargain , N Moreau
Is the collective model of labor supply useful for tax policy analysis? A simulation exercise Posted: 2003
D Beninger , F Laisney
Comparison between Unitary and Collective Models of Household Labor Supply with Taxation Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
687
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies