Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Country Perspectives on Automatic Exchange of Tax Information

Law, Social Justice & Global Development Journal, Vol. 1, 2015

Warwick School of Law Research Paper

28 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2015

Vokhid Urinov

University of New Brunswick, Faculty of law

Date Written: October 30, 2015

Abstract

In 2013, the G20 made a major policy shift in international taxation by endorsing automatic exchange of information as a next global standard for tax information exchanges between states. Within a year, the OECD introduced the standard entitled “Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information on Tax Matters”. The new standard essentially requires financial institutions in the participating countries to report information on financial accounts held by non-resident individuals and entities to their local tax authorities on a regular basis. The tax authorities then securely transmit this information to these individuals and entities’ countries of residence.

Overall, the new regime is intended to address a long-endured problem in international taxation – offshore tax evasion – and help the states to better enforce their tax laws on the foreign-source income of their residents. However, a closer analysis of the global standard, its adoption process, and the recent practice indicate that the initiative on automatic exchange of information are intended to establish a platform for regular flow of information mainly between tax havens and some developed countries. It, by and large, ignores the developing countries’ participation in the new regime. In fact, some strict requirements of the standard would prevent most developing countries from joining the regime anytime soon.

This paper argues that the new regime still offers invaluable benefits to developing countries and encourages them to join the regime. Considering and accommodating their needs in this process, must be an integral part of the initiative, and proposals for facilitating this process are offered.

Keywords: automatic exchange of information, developing countries, competent authority agreement, common reporting standard, multilateralism, multi-bilateralism, mandatory preliminary disclosure of aggregate data

Suggested Citation:

Urinov, Vokhid, Developing Country Perspectives on Automatic Exchange of Tax Information (October 30, 2015). Law, Social Justice & Global Development Journal, Vol. 1, 2015, Warwick School of Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
LGT, sold the German tax authorities CDs with customer data stolen from the bank. The CDs contained confidential information on thousands of German and nonGerman residents suspected of holding millions of euros in undeclared accounts with the bank. Germany paid the informant roughly €4.2 million in remuneration and shared the information spontaneously with the tax authorities of other countries such as
Tax Scandal in Germany Fans Complaints of Inequity Posted: 2007
Brad Birkenfeld, a former U.S. employee of a Swiss bank, UBS, delivered the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) a stolen bank data from the bank in Switzerland. The US government shared some of the data with relevant foreign governments
The Wall Street Journal , volume 11 Posted: 2007-04
; Lastly , Hervé Hsbc , Falciani
offered the French government confidential bank data concerning about 130,000 customers of HSBC. Acquiring the information, France's finance minister, Christine Lagarde, shared the list with other countries including Germany
Spiegel International Posted: 2008
H Abebe
Agreement between the Department of the Treasury of the United States of America and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit of the United Mexican States to Improve International Tax Compliance Including with Respect to FATCA Posted: 2012-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,066
RANK
140,880
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies