Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Cloud Computing a Challenge to the Traditional Concept of a Permanent Establishment?

International Tax Report, March 2014

54 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015 Last revised: 7 Nov 2015

Maria Cecilia Rossi

Queen Mary, University of London

Date Written: August 10, 2013

Abstract

Cloud computing services represent a change in the modern business behavior. There are few rules addressing cloud issues such as data and service location, as well the jurisdiction to tax these services. Considering such an environment, this article discusses the application of traditional international tax rules and concepts, which were constructed for ordinary services, to a virtualized environment, and addresses, in particular, jurisdictional tax issues in relation to cloud services. For this purpose, it was discussed the main features of cloud services and the problem of location of data. In the tax field, the discussion encompassed the principles and concepts that involve cloud services and international taxation until 2013. Lastly, the article discussed proposals that supposedly better addressed the jurisdictional problems with the international taxation caused by digital services, including the hitherto embryonic OECD BEPS.

Keywords: cloud computing, taxation, BEPS, Permanent Establishement, PE concept, digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Rossi, Maria Cecilia, Is Cloud Computing a Challenge to the Traditional Concept of a Permanent Establishment? (August 10, 2013). International Tax Report, March 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,566
RANK
144,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies