Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Profit Shifting on the Corporate Tax Base in the United States and Beyond

40 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2015 Last revised: 19 Jun 2016

Kimberly A. Clausing

UCLA School of Law; Peterson Institute for International Economics

Date Written: June 17, 2016

Abstract

This paper estimates the effect of profit shifting on corporate tax base erosion for the United States. Using Bureau of Economic Analysis survey data on U.S. multinational corporations over the period 1983 to 2012, the analysis estimates the sensitivity of foreign incomes to tax burdens for major foreign direct investment destinations. Controlling for a host of other variables as well as country fixed effects, I find that taxable income is very sensitive to corporate tax rates. Estimates of tax sensitivity are used together with data on reported foreign income to calculate how much “extra” income is booked in low-tax countries due to profit shifting; I then estimate what the tax base would be in the United States without profit shifting. I find that profit shifting is likely costing the U.S. government between $77 and $111 billion in corporate tax revenue by 2012, and these revenue losses have increased substantially in recent years. These findings are consistent with the stylized facts about large quantities of income booked in tax havens. I also undertake a speculative extension of this analysis to other countries, finding that corporate tax base erosion is likely a large problem in countries that do not have low tax rates. The paper concludes with a discussion of suggested reforms.

Keywords: international taxation, corporate taxation, transfer pricing, BEPS, corporate tax base erosion, profit shifting, income shifting

JEL Classification: H25, H87, H26

Suggested Citation:

Clausing, Kimberly A., The Effect of Profit Shifting on the Corporate Tax Base in the United States and Beyond (June 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Fixing the System: An Analysis of Alternative Proposals for the Reform of International Tax Posted: 2013
Alan J Auerbach , Joel Slemrod
The Economic Effects of the Tax Reform Act of 1986
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 35 , p. 589 - 632 Posted: 1997-06
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
Hanging Together: A Multilateral Approach to Taxing Multinationals
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 364, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-012 Pages: 33 Posted: 25 Oct 2013 Last revised: 22 May 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Reuven S Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A Clausing
Reforming Corporate Taxation in a Global Economy: A Proposal To Adopt Formulary Apportionment
Path to Prosperity: Hamilton Project Ideas on Income Security, Education, and Taxes , p. 319 - 363 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
19,475
RANK
7,628
76 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies