Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Effects of Wealth Taxes Under Uncertainty and Irreversibility

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 24

49 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The growing dissatisfaction with perceived distributional inequality and budgetary constraints gave rise to a discussion on the (re-)introduction of wealth taxes. Wealth taxes are typically levied on private wealth, in some countries also on corporate wealth. To avoid misleading statements concerning possible distributional consequences of wealth taxes, preceding analyses of the economic and particularly investment effects are necessary. As investments drive job creation, tax-induced changes in investment timing may significantly affect the income and wealth distribution. We analyze the impact of wealth taxes on investment timing under uncertainty and irreversibility and the propensity to carry out risky projects. Using a Dixit/Pindyck type real options model we find that wealth taxes have real effects. This means that higher wealth tax rates can either stimulate or depress the propensity to invest in risky projects. We find that apparently paradoxical wealth tax effects (accelerated investment due to higher wealth tax rates) are more likely for low interest rates and for high-risk investments. Using either historical cost or fair value accounting may affect investment timing ambiguously. Thus, the design of wealth taxes is crucial for the resulting delay or acceleration of investment. Although our model takes an individual perspective, our findings are also relevant for the current tax policy discussion on the introduction of wealth taxes. Our results indicate that wealth taxes are particularly harmful for specific classes of investments, for example low-risk investments.

Keywords: wealth tax, investment decisions, real options, timing flexibility, uncertainty, irreversibility

JEL Classification: H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Niemann, Rainer and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Investment Effects of Wealth Taxes Under Uncertainty and Irreversibility (2015). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015 - 24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685104 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
E Agliardi
Taxation and Investment Decisions: A Real Options Approach
Australian Economic Papers , volume 40 , p. 44 - 55 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K D Allee , D P Lynch , K R Petroni , J H Schroeder
Do Property Taxes A¤ect Real Operating Decisions and Market Prices for Crude Oil?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 736 - 762 Posted: 2015
Crossref
L H R Alvarez , E Koskela
Progressive Taxation, Tax Exemption, and Irreversible Investment under Uncertainty
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 10 , p. 149 - 169 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Arnott
Neutral Property Taxation
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 7 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,813
RANK
315,702
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies