Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State Administration of International Tax Avoidance

1 Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 7, 2017

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2015-95

67 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015 Last revised: 20 Oct 2017

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 23, 2017

Abstract

This Article documents a process in which a national tax administration in one jurisdiction, is consciously and systematically assisting taxpayers to avoid taxes in other jurisdictions. The aiding tax administration collects a small amount tax from the aided taxpayers. Such tax is functionally structured as a fee paid for government-provided tax avoidance services. Such behavior can be easily copied (and probably is copied) by other tax administrations. The implications are profound. On the normative front, the findings should fundamentally change our understanding of the concept of international tax competition. Tax competition is generally understood to be the adoption of low tax rates in order to attract investments into the jurisdiction. Instead, this Article identifies an intentional “beggar thy neighbor” behavior, aimed at attracting revenue generated by successful investments in other jurisdictions, without attracting actual investments. The result is a distorted competitive environment, in which revenue is denied from jurisdictions the infrastructure and workforce of which support economically productive activity. On the practical front, the findings suggest that internationally coordinated efforts to combat tax avoidance are misaimed. Current efforts are largely aimed at curtailing aggressive taxpayer behavior. Instead, the Article proposes that the focus of such efforts should be curtailing certain rogue practices adopted by national tax administrations.

To explain these arguments, the Article uses an original dataset. In November of 2014, hundreds of advance tax agreement (ATAs) issued by Luxembourg’s Administration des Contributions Directes (Luxembourg’s Inland Revenue, or LACD) to multinational corporate taxpayers (MNCs) were made public. 172 of the documents are hand-coded and analyzed. The analysis demonstrates that LACD cannot be reasonably viewed – as some have suggested in LACD’s defense – a passive player in tax avoidance schemes of multinational taxpayers. Rather, LACD is best described as a for-profit manufacturer of tax avoidance opportunities.

Keywords: International Tax, Tax Arbitrage, Tax Avoidance, Lux Leaks, LuxLeaks

JEL Classification: E62, H25, H26, K34, H73

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., The State Administration of International Tax Avoidance (March 23, 2017). 1 Harvard Business Law Review, Vol. 7, 2017, UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2015-95, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Id
, p. 57 - 58
Id
Org See , For Econ , Coop-Eration , Dev
However, this attempt at preventing international tax avoidance is viewed as a failed effort
HARMFUL TAX COMPETITION: AN EMERGING GLOBAL ISSUE , volume 1 Posted: 1998
BEPS Project, supra note 90
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,060
RANK
42,972
12 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies