Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Challenges in the Cloud

57 B.C. L. Rev. 643 (2016)

SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 210

53 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2015 Last revised: 2 Aug 2023

Orly Mazur

Southern Methodist University - Dedman School of Law

Date Written: November 5, 2015

Abstract

Cloud computing - the provision of information technology resources in a virtual environment - has fundamentally changed how companies operate. Companies have quickly adapted by moving their businesses to the cloud, but international tax standards have failed to follow suit. As a result, taxpayers and tax administrations confront significant tax challenges in applying outdated tax principles to this new environment. One particular area that raises perplexing tax issues is the transfer pricing rules. The transfer pricing rules set forth the intercompany price a cloud service provider must charge an affiliate using its cloud services, which ultimately affects in which jurisdiction the company’s profits are taxed. This Article argues that the fundamental features of cloud computing exacerbate some of the more difficult transfer pricing problems that already exist. Specifically, due to the nature of the cloud, the current transfer pricing rules give U.S. multinational enterprises substantial freedom to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions and avoid tax in the United States in a practice commonly referred to as base erosion and profit shifting, or “BEPS.” This type of aggressive international tax planning often results in stateless income – income that disappears for tax purposes. As such, it has become a pressing problem worldwide that poses a serious risk to tax sovereignty, tax fairness, and the integrity of the corporate income tax. In response to significant political pressure resulting from these undesirable tax policy results, the OECD has launched an action plan to address the BEPS problem. Although an important first step, the OECD’s work falls short of coming up with an innovative solution that will restore taxation on stateless income. In response, this Article recommends that, given the features of this new business environment, an international tax reform solution that adopts formulary apportionment or the profit-split methodology on a coordinated global basis would better address BEPS and minimize the undesirable policy results of our current transfer pricing rules.

Keywords: cloud, tax, international, BEPS, OECD, transfer pricing, tax reform, formulary apportionment, digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Mazur, Orly, Transfer Pricing Challenges in the Cloud (November 5, 2015). 57 B.C. L. Rev. 643 (2016), SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 210, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2686723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
It is also a relevant pointer to consider whether the MNE group as a whole is left worse off on a pre-tax basis since this may be an indicator that the transaction viewed in its entirety lacks the commercial rationality of arrangements between unrelated parties
ACTION PLAN ON BASE EROSION AND PROFIT SHIFTING, supra note 13, at 23. 224 ORG. FOR ECON. CO-OPERATION & DEV., TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING
ACTION , volume 13 Posted: 2015
Potential areas for abuse of this reporting system include the risk that tax administrations will use the reports to demand a percentage of profits based on formulary apportionment of the MNE's profits or demand profits based on what similar countries are receiving
See Alex M. Parker, Treasury Official: 'Policing' Needed for BEPS Global Reporting System
noting potential areas for abuse of the reporting system and describing proposed safeguards to prevent abuse of the reports, including a reporting system for taxpayers and penalties for tax authorities Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
662
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
90,955
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies