Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Coverage of Corporate Taxes

61 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2015 Last revised: 12 Jul 2018

Shannon Chen

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Kathleen Schuchard

University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 27, 2018

Abstract

Managers express growing concern over media coverage of corporate taxes, yet no large-sample empirical study examines this phenomenon. As a first step to fill this void, we identify factors associated with the likelihood and negative tone of media tax coverage and examine firms’ tax avoidance behavior following media tax coverage. We find the likelihood of media tax coverage is greater for firms with GAAP effective tax rates below the top U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent and for firms with greater visibility. The degree of negative tone is increasing in cash tax avoidance and firm size. We also find evidence of more frequent and more negative tax coverage during economic recessions. We find no evidence that firms reduce their tax avoidance following media coverage. Although our analyses are subject to limitations, our results suggest the media may not have the same influence over corporate tax policy as other external stakeholders.

Keywords: Role of the media, Tax planning, Tax disclosure

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H20, M41, G39

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shannon and Schuchard, Kathleen and Stomberg, Bridget, Media Coverage of Corporate Taxes (June 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2686333 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2686333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Arthaud-Day , S Certo , C Dalton , D Dalton
A changing of the guard: Executive and director turnover following corporate financial restatements
Academy of Management Journal , volume 49 , issue 6 , p. 1119 - 1136 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C R Austin , R Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Benjamin C. Ayers , Jeri K. Seidman , Erin Towery
Taxpayer Behavior under Audit Certainty
Pages: 50 Posted: 23 May 2015 Last revised: 16 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,776
RANK
34,251
8 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies