Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distortional Effects of Separate Accounting and Formula Apportionment on Factor Allocation

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-28

38 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2016 Last revised: 3 Feb 2022

Regina Ortmann

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Erich Pummerer

University of Innsbruck - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We examine distortions caused by tax base allocation systems – separate accounting (SA) or formula apportionment (FA) – with respect to the allocation of assets and workforce within multinational entities (MNEs). The effects of both systems are intensively debated by EU Member States as they are striving to implement a European tax system. Its introduction would lead to a switch from SA to FA. Moreover, Pillar One of the recent global tax reform includes a mix of both tax base allocation systems. We find that, against the claims of the EU, FA does not necessarily create lower distortions of the factor allocation. Decisive for that assessment is the level of profit shifting under SA. As far as this information is not publicly available, consequences of a switch in systems are not anticipatable. Our results indicate that, in tendency, the factor allocation is more severely distorted by FA when the profit shifting possibilities were rather low under SA. In contrast to former studies, we highlight the importance of analyzing the status quo under the recently applied system (SA) in order to be able to assess the consequences of a switch from SA to FA. Our results are interesting for policy-makers as they help anticipating reactions of MNEs to a change in the applied tax base allocation system and for companies as a basis for future tax planning.

Keywords: H21, H25, H26

JEL Classification: factor allocation, formula apportionment, investment decision, separate accounting, transfer pricing

Suggested Citation:

Ortmann, Regina and Pummerer, Erich, Distortional Effects of Separate Accounting and Formula Apportionment on Factor Allocation (2022). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2015-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2688090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
References Alexander , A De Vito , A Jacob , M
Corporate tax reforms and tax-motivated profit shifting: evidence from the EU
Accounting and Business Research , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 309 - 341 Posted: 2020
H K Baker , P English
Capital Budgeting Valuation: Financial Analysis for Today's Investment Projects Posted: 2011
M D Delis , I Hasan , P I Karavitis
Profit shifting and tax rate-uncertainty
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 47 , p. 645 - 676 Posted: 2020
M P Devereux , R Griffith
Taxes and the location of production: evidence from a panel of US multinationals
Journal of Public Economics , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 367 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,410
RANK
249,052
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies