Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Firms' Responses to Tax Forgiveness

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 2, 2017

Posted: 11 Nov 2015 Last revised: 2 Mar 2018

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 15, 2015

Abstract

This study uses state tax amnesties to examine how firms respond to forgiveness — particularly repeated forgiveness — by a taxing authority. We posit that tax forgiveness programs alter taxpayer perceptions of the probability of detection by enforcers or the probability of future forgiveness programs, either of which could affect future tax avoidance. We find that firms headquartered in an amnesty-granting state increase income tax avoidance following the first instance of tax amnesty, relative to control firms in other states. Moreover, we find evidence that tax avoidance relatively increases with each additional repetition of a tax amnesty. Finally, we find that the effect of amnesties on tax avoidance is more prominent for small firms. Our findings suggest that repeated programs of tax forgiveness have increasingly negative implications for corporate tax collections.

Keywords: tax amnesty, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Thornock, Jacob and Williams, Braden, An Examination of Firms' Responses to Tax Forgiveness (August 15, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2688729
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies