Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Controversy Corner - Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Adequate Disclosure But Were Afraid to Ask

Journal of Passthrough Entities, 2015

6 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2015

Megan L. Brackney

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Adequate disclosure is a defense to the application of the extended six-year statute of limitations for assessment of tax based on a substantial understatement of gross income under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) § 6501(e), a defense to substantial understatement penalties under IRC § 6662(d)(2), and a defense to preparer penalties under IRC §6694(a), as well as an important factor in whether the IRS exercises its discretion to impose penalties in other situations. This article discusses the method and manner of disclosure in each of these situations.

Suggested Citation:

Brackney, Megan L., Tax Controversy Corner - Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Adequate Disclosure But Were Afraid to Ask (September 1, 2015). Journal of Passthrough Entities, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
RANK
692,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies