Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Effects on Behavioral Tax Biases in Risky Investment Decisions

36 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2015

Martin Fochmann

Free University of Berlin

Kristina Hemmerich

University of Würzburg

Dirk Kiesewetter

University of Würzburg

Date Written: November 12, 2015

Abstract

In a variety of recent papers, it is shown that individuals do not take taxes correctly into account, which results in distorted or unexpected investment behavior. We shed further light on the discussion of such behavioral tax perception biases by analyzing intrinsic and extrinsic effects on decision behavior. We study two dimensions: (1) the influence of emotions and cognition (individual dimension, intrinsic effects) and (2) the influence of available tax information by varying tax complexity and salience (tax system dimension, extrinsic effects). In our laboratory experiment, we construct the payoff structure such that the subjects are confronted with exactly the same choices in net terms in a situation with or without a capital gains tax. This design allows us to identify pure tax perception biases. We show that both dimensions are able to explain tax perception biases. In particular, we find evidence that perceived risk (cognition) is lower and consequently willingness to take risk is higher with a capital gains tax (with full loss offset provision) than without taxation. Furthermore, this positive effect on risky investment is higher in a situation with a rather low level of tax information in which tax complexity is high and tax salience is low. In addition, we are able to provide evidence that the use of decision heuristics can explain the observed tax bias differences between our information treatments. In particular, we find a negative relationship between the information level and the use of heuristics.

Keywords: Tax Perception, Behavioral Taxation, Risk Taking Behavior, Tax Complexity, Tax Salience, Affect and Cognition, Experimental Economics

JEL Classification: C91, D14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Fochmann, Martin and Hemmerich, Kristina and Kiesewetter, Dirk, Intrinsic and Extrinsic Effects on Behavioral Tax Biases in Risky Investment Decisions (November 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2689530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
H Ackermann , M Fochmann , B Mihm
Biased effects of taxes and subsidies on portfolio choices
Economics Letters , volume 120 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M T P Adam , J Krämer , M B Müller
Auction Fever! How Time Pressure and Social Competition Affect Bidders' Arousal and Bids in Retail Auctions
Journal of Retailing , volume 91 , p. 468 - 485 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E B Andrade , T Odean , S Lin
Bubbling with Excitement: An Experiment
Review of Finance Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Au , F Chan , D Wang , I Vertinsky
Mood in foreign exchange trading: Cognitive processes and performance
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 91 , p. 322 - 338 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,800
RANK
361,062
3 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies