Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fallacy of Using Superannuation Taxation Expenditures

Australian Journal of Actuarial Practice, 1, 81-84, 2014

4 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2015

David Knox

Mercer Australia

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The taxation of superannuation has been subject to much speculation and commentary in recent times. This discussion is prompted every year when the Commonwealth Treasury produces the Tax Expenditures Statement, which provides details of more than 350 tax expenditures. The latest Statement, published in January 2013, showed the largest projected tax expenditures for 2012-13 are for superannuation and owner-occupied housing, with the superannuation tax expenditure shown as $31.9 billion with an expected growth to $44.8 billion in 2015-16. Naturally such significant numbers attract considerable attention from interested parties who may be aiming to increase government revenue or improve equity within the community. This paper will show that the Treasury approach, which ignores Government savings from reduced Age Pension costs, is fundamentally flawed and, if used to develop long-term retirement income policy, is likely to lead to sub-optimal outcomes for individuals, households and the government.

Keywords: superannuation, taxation, age pension

Suggested Citation:

Knox, David, The Fallacy of Using Superannuation Taxation Expenditures (2014). Australian Journal of Actuarial Practice, 1, 81-84, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies