Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion as Crime

Monica Bhandari (ed.), Philosophical Foundations of Tax Law (Oxford U. Press, Forthcoming)

35 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2015

Stuart P. Green

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Law School

Date Written: November 13, 2015

Abstract

From the perspective of the criminal law, tax evasion is a baffling and anomalous offense. It deviates from the traditional paradigm of crime in that the harms it causes are highly diffuse, significant only in the aggregate, and hard to identify with any certainty. Tax evasion also differs from other offenses in terms of its incidence, which is probably higher than that of any other serious white collar crime. The laws concerning tax evasion are also enforced in a highly irregular and selective manner. Despite, or perhaps because of, such anomalies, tax evasion is a crime that has tended to fall between the cracks of normative analysis. Criminal law theorists have largely avoided the subject of tax evasion altogether, while tax law theorists, though not avoiding the subject as such, have only rarely applied to it the basic tools of criminal law theory. In this chapter, I will seek to do just that, by arguing, first, that an understanding of how taxes differ from fees, fines, penalties, forfeitures, and other types of government assessments is crucial to an understanding of why tax evasion is morally wrong. Second, I will offer an account of the moral content of tax evasion, explaining the role that the concepts of cheating, disobedience to the law, and what I call “deceptive covering up” play in defining its moral content; and why, further, the concept of stealing is largely inapposite. Finally, I will consider the extent to which my analysis of tax evasion might be helpful in assessing the moral content of tax avoidance.

Keywords: tax, tax evasion, tax avoidance, criminalization

JEL Classification: H26, K34, K14

Suggested Citation:

Green, Stuart P., Tax Evasion as Crime (November 13, 2015). Monica Bhandari (ed.), Philosophical Foundations of Tax Law (Oxford U. Press, Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2690442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Joseph E Stiglitz
with an average income of more than $200 million, pay less than 20 percent of their income in taxes -far lower than mere millionaires, who pay about 25 percent of their income in taxes, and about the same as those earning a mere $200,000 to $500,000. And in 2009, 116 of the top 400 earners -almost a third -paid less than 15 percent of their income in taxes
New York Times Posted: 2013-04-14
These arguably include tax breaks for owners of vacation homes, racetracks, beer breweries, oil refineries, hedge funds, and movie studios, to name just a few beneficiaries of presumably unfair tax laws. See generally Stiglitz, id.; David Cay Johnston, Perfectly Legal: The Covert Campaign to Rig our Tax System to Benefit the Super Rich-and Posted: 2003
Citizens For , Tax Justice
76 However, he certainly seems to have violated the "spirit" of the rules. Those rules play a role within, and help define, the larger practice of casual Sunday morning tennis games. Within this framework, winning is valued, of course, but only when it is consistent with the larger goals of practice. A's behavior seems at odds with the reasons that people ordinarily engage in such a cooperative venture: having fun, getting exercise, improving their skills. Indeed, it tends to directly undermine the achievement of such goals. Stock investing: The basic purpose of the stock market is often said to be to provide fluid capital to companies that wish to expand their businesses. Individual traders hope to make money in the market by "buying low" and "selling high
The Sorry State of Corporate Taxes: What Fortune Because none of A's behavior (so far as I can tell -I am not a tennis player myself) violates the official rules of the game, we should conclude that he has not cheated
it would be inaccurate to say that he has cheated. Yet, as in the tennis case, his conduct arguably does violate the "spirit" of the rules regarding stock trading
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,053
RANK
161,684
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies