Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Shifting as an Aspect of Tax Avoidance: Evidence from U.S. Multinational Corporations

45 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2015

Adriana S. Cordis

Winthrop University - College of Business Administration

Chris Kirby

UNC Charlotte - Belk College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

We use jurisdiction-specific effective tax rates (ETRs) to investigate income shifting as an aspect of tax avoidance by U.S. firms. Our central hypothesis is that tax-based incentives for shifting income, as measured by the spread between domestic and foreign ETRs, should be reflected in the share of pre-tax income earned by U.S. firms in foreign jurisdictions. We find substantial support for this hypothesis in the data. Specifically, there is robust evidence of a positive correlation between the foreign share of pre-tax income and the ETR spread that is consistent with firms shifting income both into and out of the United States. We also find that firms respond asymmetrically to positive and negative ETR spreads. In particular, the evidence indicates that the response to a negative spread is stronger than to a positive spread of the same magnitude. This finding is qualitatively consistent with the argument that the limitation on foreign tax credits diminishes the benefit of shifting income out of the United States.

Keywords: income shifting, tax avoidance, effective tax rate, cross-sectional regression

JEL Classification: H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cordis, Adriana S. and Kirby, Chris, Income Shifting as an Aspect of Tax Avoidance: Evidence from U.S. Multinational Corporations (November 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2690903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2690903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Andrews , J Monahan
An improved heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix estimator
Econometrica , volume 60 , p. 953 - 966 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Karthik Balakrishnan , Jennifer Blouin , Wayne R. Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
Pages: 67 Posted: 27 Mar 2011 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Cameron , P Trivedi
Microeconometrics: Methods and Applications Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,895
RANK
379,264
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies