Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Declining Allure of Being 'American' and the Proliferation of Corporate Tax Inversions: A Critical Analysis of Regulatory Efforts to Curtail the Inversion Trend

93 Wash. U. L. Rev. 767 (2016)

36 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2015 Last revised: 14 Jul 2016

John Hamlett

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: July 13, 2016

Abstract

In the realm of tax policy, within which there is rarely broad-based consensus, there are few topics as polarizing as corporate tax inversions. An inversion is a paper transaction in which a US corporation reincorporates abroad to realize strategic tax benefits, without actually transplanting its operations overseas. These transactions necessarily reduce the US corporate income tax base, because although an inverted corporation is still taxed the same amount on income earned within the United States, it will no longer have to remit tax payments to the US Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) for income earned abroad. This reduction in the tax base is especially troubling given that the national debt exceeds $19 trillion, the US credit rating is experiencing unprecedented volatility, and the annual US government deficit ranges from hundreds of billions to more than a trillion dollars per year. Given the current state of the domestic economy, the notion of successful US corporations nominally moving their headquarters abroad to alleviate their tax burden is unpalatable for many. Others do not fault inverters for acting in the interests of their shareholders, and simply see the trend as evidence of the need for substantial corporate tax reform so that the United States can become more globally competitive as a home for businesses. However, those with opposing viewpoints may be closer together than they realize, and meaningful reform may be attainable if productive dialogue can be facilitated.

This Note provides an overview of trends in corporate taxation, the thirty-year history of inversions and governmental attempts to contain them, and an analysis of recent anti-inversion regulations proposed by Treasury in September 2014. Finally, this Note critiques the legislative and regulatory framework that attempts to restrict the practice of inversions, and provides a suggestion for constructively responding to the trend. Given the passion and diversity of viewpoints on the issue, arriving at a national consensus on how to respond to the recent proliferation of inversions presents an extraordinary challenge. There may, however, be enough common ground for lawmakers to craft a solution that removes the incentive for corporations to invert, thereby shoring up the tax base and making the US economy more competitive globally. In light of the substantial — and rapidly growing — national debt, there is no better time to critically reevaluate the policies and priorities of corporate taxation.

Note: A working copy.

Keywords: September 2014, Treasury notice, corporate tax, inversion

Suggested Citation:

Hamlett, John, The Declining Allure of Being 'American' and the Proliferation of Corporate Tax Inversions: A Critical Analysis of Regulatory Efforts to Curtail the Inversion Trend (July 13, 2016). 93 Wash. U. L. Rev. 767 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
See supra notes 47-58 and accompanying text
Lorenzetti
Crossref
Clausing See
The term 'inversion' itself refers to the upside-down structure that often results from the transaction, with the smaller foreign holding corporation now owning the larger U.S. operating company
Kirsch, supra note 26 , volume 353 , p. 319 - 347 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
RANK
418,383
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies