Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Companies, Professionals, and Income Splitting -- Recent Canadian Experience

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2015

Posted: 19 Nov 2015

Scott Legree

University of Waterloo

Michael C. Wolfson

EvidenceNetwork.ca; University of Ottawa

Date Written: November 18, 2015

Abstract

Popular media discussions of tax policies with regard to income splitting have focused on recent changes in the individual income tax for those with pension income and families with children. However, income splitting has been an important aspect of small business taxation for many years, even though it has always been relatively obscure. In this study, we have extended earlier work by Wolfson, Veall, and Brooks on the impacts of Canadian-controlled private corporations (CCPCs) on the overall distribution of income, to develop empirical estimates of the use of CCPCs for income splitting. This new study builds on a unique record linkage, under the strict auspices of the Statistics Act, of the T2 returns for CCPCs, the T1s of their owners and these owners' immediate family members, and the relevant T4 and T5 information slips. On the basis of these data, the current study shows that while there are individuals throughout the income spectrum who own CCPCs, ownership is concentrated in upper income groups. Subject to a number of caveats with regard to data limitations, we then provide an approximate, and likely, conservative estimate of the revenue costs of income splitting via CCPCs--about half a billion dollars annually. Finally, as another indication of the benefits of using CCPCs for income-splitting purposes, we track the numbers of restaurants, law practices, and doctors' practices incorporated as CCPCs. The resulting trends reflect a form of natural experiment, since there were no substantive changes in income-splitting opportunities for restaurants, while over the period studied there was a generally more relaxed approach on the part of the Canada Revenue Agency to the sharing of the small business deduction for legal firms, and a specific facilitating change in Ontario corporate law for doctors. While the evidence on the trends in numbers of CCPCs for these two kinds of professional corporations is circumstantial, it shows a clear correlation with trends in the legal and tax treatments of such CCPCs.

Keywords: Corporate tax planning, professional corporations, income splitting, integration, CCPC, tax expenditures

Suggested Citation:

Legree, Scott and Wolfson, Michael C., Private Companies, Professionals, and Income Splitting -- Recent Canadian Experience (November 18, 2015). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692800
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies