Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Reporting and Commercial Confidentiality

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2015

34 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2015 Last revised: 20 Nov 2015

Arthur J. Cockfield

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Carl MacArthur

Western University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 18, 2015

Abstract

Country-by-country reporting (CBCR) has been touted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as a possible reform effort to inhibit aggressive international tax planning that leads to revenue losses for high-tax countries. Under current accounting, tax-law, and securities-law regimes, multinational enterprises (MNEs) are generally not required to report to domestic tax authorities or disclose to the public any significant financial information concerning their operations in foreign countries. CBCR would change this environment so that MNEs would be required to annually report financial information, including revenue, profit before income tax, and income tax paid in respect of every country in which they operate. Under the current OECD proposal, MNEs will be required to disseminate this information to tax authorities on a confidential basis and will not be required to disclose any information to the public. This article evaluates, from a transaction cost perspective, the claim that reporting such information on a geographic basis could harm firm competitiveness if MNEs were also required to disclose such information to the public or if the information were improperly disclosed by foreign tax authorities to rival firms. While the empirical evidence on this issue is mixed, the analysis suggests that CBCR will not unduly raise MNE transaction costs, in part because there are sufficient legal protections to guard against the revelation of sensitive commercial or trade secrets. In fact, CBCR represents a transaction-cost-efficient reform that could inhibit the use of revenue-reducing international tax-planning strategies. The article additionally discusses transition issues with respect to the implementation of different "maximalist" or "minimalist" approaches to CBCR.

Keywords: Foreign reporting, tax avoidance, privacy, base erosion and profit shifting, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, information exchange

Suggested Citation:

Cockfield, Arthur and MacArthur, Carl, Country-by-Country Reporting and Commercial Confidentiality (November 18, 2015). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
See Daniel , A Bens , Philip G Berger , Steven J Monahan
Discretionary Disclosure in Financial reporting: An Examination Comparing Internal Firm Data to Externally reported Segment Data
Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 466 Posted: 2011
Ibid
, volume 420
Crossref
Hahn Berger
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,001
RANK
94,830
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies