Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manufactured Factual Indeterminacy and the Globalization of Tax Jurisprudence

4:2 University College London J. Law & Jurisprudence 250 (2015).

21 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2015

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Date Written: November 23, 2015

Abstract

In this article the ‘manufactured’ factual indeterminacy now ubiquitous within the practice of international taxation is presented as a result of intersecting global approaches to the theory of law. It is argued that tax law practice assumes a mixture of the theoretical positions averred by Hans Kelsen, Karl Llewellyn, and Ronald Dworkin. To combat the problems raised by this, a ‘Soft Realism’ is proposed in the application of tax heuristics to deal with cases of factual indeterminacy. Drawing some implications from this analysis, the debate over general anti-avoidance rules and complex tax avoidance strategies (eg ‘treaty-shopping’ and ‘double non-taxation’) is oriented within the overall framework of tax jurisprudence. Finally, it is argued that the globalisation of tax jurisprudence has enabled accounting firms to actively spread manufactured factual indeterminacy around the world, corrupting the purpose of the law in part by exploiting the weaknesses of formalistic legal interpretation.

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret, Manufactured Factual Indeterminacy and the Globalization of Tax Jurisprudence (November 23, 2015). 4:2 University College London J. Law & Jurisprudence 250 (2015)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Green
Dworkin' s Fallacy, or What the Philosophy of Language Can' t Teach us about the Law' (n 32) 382 ' The most important challenge to Kelsen is from empiricist approaches to jurisprudence. Rather than understanding legal meaning in terms of abstract objects, the empiricist argues that it can instead explain it in fully empirical terms
Green
Legal Realism as a Theory of Law , p. 1916 - 1923
or (10) of section 5112 (a) of title 31, United States Code … (iv) a coin issued under the laws of any State, or (B) any gold, silver, platinum, or palladium bullion of a fineness equal to or exceeding the minimum fineness that a contract market
regards normativity as a category, a logical primitive analyzable only as such, a " lens" through which phenomena are cogitated, irreducible to linguistic units or mental states and not exhausted by phenomenological explanations
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
422,861
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies