Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China's Role and Contribution in the Global Governance of Climate Change: Institutional Adjustments for Carbon Tax Introduction, Collection and Management in China

Journal of World Energy Law and Business, Oxford University Press, Volume 8, Issue 6, December 2015

12 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2015 Last revised: 30 Jan 2016

Haifeng Deng

Tsinghua University - School of Law

Paolo Davide Farah

University of Tulsa College of Law; West Virginia University (WV, USA); gLAWcal - Global Law Initiatives for Sustainable Development (United Kingdom); University of Pittsburgh - School of Law

Anna Wang

Tsinghua University - School of Law

Date Written: November 24, 2015

Abstract

As global climate change and its adverse effects have caused serious consequences, the Chinese Government is speeding up on energy saving and emissions reductions, becoming much more active on the climate and environment front. According to the work schedule of the Ministry of Finance, construction of the environmental protection tax system is one essential part of the forthcoming green tax reform in China. On 10 June 2015, the Cabinet’s Legislative Affairs Office issued a Draft Environmental Protection Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Draft EPT Law’) to solicit opinions and comments. This action received much attention and prompted discussion both at home and abroad. The Draft EPT Law shows the trend of transforming pollution charges into tax, and starts a green reform in administrative management by means of financial tools. Though the law does not include carbon dioxide with taxable pollutants, it leaves space for future carbon taxation. With the increase of green reform in the future, carbon tax will no doubt be put on the priority list of the Chinese Government, at which point the Government will face three major challenges. First, the current unsatisfactory tax system environment will jeopardize carbon tax. It is necessary to repeal the overlaps between the Draft EPT Law and carbon tax, other energy taxes and non-environmental taxes, and introduce carbon tax into the current tax system without throwing off the order of the overall tax structure. Secondly, in spite of the design of the new tax structure, the administrative organization of tax management remains a very critical problem. It will be necessary to establish an orderly interactive relationship horizontally between the environmental agency and tax agency, and vertically between the central and the local authorities. Thirdly, a new carbon tax will cause economic slowdown in the short term. In addition to offering tax rebates, reductions and subsidies, a system of penalties could offset negative effects and optimize positive outcomes of emission reduction.

Keywords: Carbon Tax, China, Chinese Law, Policy, Climate Change, Greehouse Gases, GHG, Emissions, Draft of Environmental Protection Law, Draft EPT Law, Pollution Charges, Administrative Law, Tax System, Energy Taxes, Management, Tax Rebates, Subsidies, Reductions, Institutional Reforms

JEL Classification: Q40, Q42, Q43, Q48, K30, K32, K33, O13, Q20, Q32

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Haifeng and Farah, Paolo Davide and Wang, Anna, China's Role and Contribution in the Global Governance of Climate Change: Institutional Adjustments for Carbon Tax Introduction, Collection and Management in China (November 24, 2015). Journal of World Energy Law and Business, Oxford University Press, Volume 8, Issue 6, December 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Paolo Davide , Farah
Sustainable Energy Investments and National Security: Arbitration and Negotiation Issues
JOURNAL OF WORLD ENERGY LAW AND BUSINESS , volume 8 , issue 6 Posted: 2015-11
Dias Fernando , Simões
Powered by Expertise: Selecting Arbitrators in Energy Disputes
JOURNAL OF WORLD ENERGY LAW AND BUSINESS , volume 8 , issue 6 Posted: 2015-11
Jun Xiao
How Can a Prospective China-EU BIT Contribute to Sustainable Investment: In Light of the UNCTAD Investment Policy Framework for Sustainable Development
JOURNAL OF WORLD ENERGY LAW AND BUSINESS , volume 8 , issue 6 Posted: 2015-11
Crossref
Zhang Qinglin
Analysis of the Impact on Sustainable Development by Investment Regulations in the Energy Charter Treaty
JOURNAL OF WORLD ENERGY LAW AND BUSINESS , volume 8 , issue 6 Posted: 2015-11
Load more
2 Citations
Edmund Udemba , Merve Tosun
Are Renewable Energy and Technological Innovation Development Consistency in Achieving Climate and Sustainable Development Goals (Sdgs)?
RENE-D-22-01246 · 35 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jiangbo Wang , Zhongyu Sun , Kai Liu , JianJun Wu , Tao Feng
The Impact of Carbon Emission Regulatory Policies on Demand-Responsive Transit Operation: A Strategy to Avoid Service Equity Loss
YTRA-D-24-02141 · 40 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 25
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,543
RANK
112,247
2 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies