Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compatibility of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Proposals with EU Law

Bulletin for International Taxation, 2015 (Volume 70), No. 1/2

23 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2015

Christiana HJI Panayi

Queen Mary University of London, School of Law

Date Written: October 5, 2015

Abstract

This article examines the compatibility of the proposals produced in respect of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profiting Shifting Action Plan with EU law. Where relevant, the author also reviews the compatibility of the recent EU measures that address aggressive tax planning.

Suggested Citation:

HJI Panayi, Christiana, The Compatibility of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Proposals with EU Law (October 5, 2015). Bulletin for International Taxation, 2015 (Volume 70), No. 1/2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2697511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
be interpreted compatibly with EU law, see HJI Panayi
Preventing the Granting of Treaty Benefits in Inappropriate Circumstances
BEPS Action , volume 6 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Preventing Treaty Abuse (OECD 2015), available at www.oecd.org/ctp/treaties/discussion-draft-action-6-follow-up-prevent-treatyabuse.pdf; and Revised Discussion draft -BEPS Action 6: Prevent Treaty Abuse (OECD 2015), available at www.oecd.org/tax/treaties/reviseddiscussion-draft-beps-action-6-prevent-treaty-abuse.pdf. For an analysis of this, see HJI Panayi
OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, Preventing the Granting of Treaty Benefits in Inappropriate Circumstances -Action , volume 6 Posted: 2014
Preventing the Granting of Treaty Benefits in Inappropriate Circumstances, Action 6 -2015 Final Report, OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project
OECD Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,109
RANK
131,610
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies