Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is China Creating a New Business Order? Rationalizing China's Extraterritorial Attempt to Expand the Veil-Piercing Doctrine

Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Vol. 35, No. 3, 2015

88 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2015

Shen Wei

Shanghai Jiao Tong University Law School

Casey Watters

Independent

Date Written: December 6, 2015

Abstract

Countries are increasingly using tax policy as an instrument to navigate through the recent global financial difficulties, and China is no exception. In an effort to avoid the loss of tax revenue resulting from the utilization of foreign holding companies, the Chinese tax authority issued Circular 698 granting itself the authority to tax transactions between foreign entities taking place outside of China if the transactions effectively transfer interest in a domestic enterprise. The phrase "denying the existence of an offshore holding company which is used for tax planning purposes" in Circular 698 appears to share similarities with the veil-piercing doctrine, a long established doctrine of corporate law existing independent of tax regulations, which disregards the separate legal personality of a company. This article addresses the legitimacy and policy objectives behind Circular 698 and its implementation, and the article compares the Chinese policy to the application of a similar policy in India. The article then examines how the expansive and extraterritorial veil-piercing scenario created by Circular 698 compares with traditional veil-piercing justifications and the three veil-piercing scenarios listed in China's Company Law. The article interprets Circular 698 in a global context, which underscores the legitimacy of Circular 698 and suggests how foreign experiences can improve the enforcement mechanism for Circular 698. By drawing a global picture this article also enhances the proposition that there is a need to have a uniform approach to dealing with the loopholes that Circular 698 tries to fill at the global level.

Keywords: Business order, veil-piercing doctrine, Chinese company law

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Shen and Watters, Casey, Is China Creating a New Business Order? Rationalizing China's Extraterritorial Attempt to Expand the Veil-Piercing Doctrine (December 6, 2015). Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Vol. 35, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
China's Extraterritorial Veil-Piercing Attempt , volume 35 Posted: 2015
Crossref
China's Extraterritorial Veil-Piercing Attempt , volume 35 Posted: 2015
Crossref
China's Extraterritorial Veil-Piercing Attempt , volume 35 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Hearing on China's World Trade Compliance: Industrial Subsidies and the Impact on U.S. and World Markets, Statement before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Posted: 2006-04-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
528,080
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies