Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate In-house Tax Departments

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-41

59 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2015 Last revised: 21 Nov 2019

Xia Chen

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Qiang Cheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Yanju Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University – Department of Accountancy and Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2019

Abstract

In-house tax investment is a significant input to a firm’s tax decisions. Yet, due to the lack of data, there is little empirical evidence on how corporate tax departments are associated with tax planning and compliance outcomes. Using hand-collected data on corporate tax employees in S&P1500 firms over the 2009-2014 period, we find that firms with larger tax departments are associated with lower and less volatile cash effective tax rates. Furthermore, using tax employees’ specialization, we identify tax departments’ relative focus on planning or compliance and document a trade-off between tax avoidance and tax risk: tax departments with a more tax planning focus have incrementally greater tax avoidance but higher tax risk, and tax departments with a more tax compliance focus have incrementally lower tax risk but higher tax rates. Overall, this paper contributes to the literature by looking inside the “black box” of corporate tax departments.

Keywords: Human Capital, Tax Planning, Tax Avoidance, Tax Risk

JEL Classification: J24, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xia and Cheng, Qiang and Chow, Travis and Liu, Yanju, Corporate In-house Tax Departments (October 14, 2019). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2701723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S Henry , R Sansing
Corporate Tax Avoidance: Data Truncation and Loss Firms
Review Posted: 2018
Crossref
***
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,018
RANK
534,865
17 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies