Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deductibility Post Business Cessation - The Commissioner Rules

7 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2015

Justin Dabner

Tax Re-Solutions

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

In an article published in this publication earlier this year (Issue 9, 6 March 2003, paragraph 115) the author outlined the cases and rulings featured in the ongoing issue as to the continued deductibility of interest post business cessation. The author reflected on the ATO’s likely response to its loss in the most recent decision on the issue (FCT v Jones 2002 ATC 4135) and prophesised that the case had not fully resolved the issue. Indeed the Commissioner's recent release of TR 2003/D8 dealing with deductions for interest incurred both prior to and following the cessation of income earning activities raises as many questions as it answers.

Suggested Citation:

Dabner, Justin, Interest Deductibility Post Business Cessation - The Commissioner Rules (2003). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2701072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,125
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies