Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of the Australian and Japanese Corporations Tax Reorganisation Rules

Kansai University Review of Law and Politics, 24. pp. 15-26, 2003

12 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2015

Justin Dabner

Tax Re-Solutions

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The Australian and Japanese Governments have both come to appreciate that corporate reorganisations are necessary for an efficient economy and are therefore to be encouraged. Thus, tax relief has been provided in both countries; though only very recently in Japan.

Intra-group transactions under the guise of a reorganisation can also present ample opportunity for tax avoidance. The Australian response has been to include detailed anti-avoidance rules, whereas the Japanese response has been to enact a general anti-avoidance rule applicable to reorganisations.

Both approaches have their limitations. In particular, the Japanese response has the potential to generate uncertainty that may detract from the policy of encouraging corporate reorganisations. Guidance as to the application of the anti-avoidance rule is therefore required. Reference to the Australian experience may assist in identifying likely avoidance opportunities and an appropriate response. In particular, non-taxable value transfers and the artificial generation of tax losses must be provided for.

Suggested Citation:

Dabner, Justin, A Comparison of the Australian and Japanese Corporations Tax Reorganisation Rules (2003). Kansai University Review of Law and Politics, 24. pp. 15-26, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
New Dawn for Japanese Holdings
International Tax Review , volume 10 Posted: 1999
Arts 352 -372. The rules apply only to joint stock companies and not to limited companies
; , Yoichi Ishizuka
Japan Amends Rules for Tax-free Reorganisations
The Improved Infrastructure for Industrial Revitalisation and M & A in Japan , volume 6 Posted: 1999-12-13
Arts 373 -374-31 and 63-2 -63-9 of the Limited Company Law
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,189
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies