Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Jurisdiction in a Digitalizing Economy; Why ‘Online Profits’ are so Hard to Pin Down

Intertax, Vol. 2015, Issue 12, pp. 796–803

10 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2015

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

Although we live in an age in which everything and everyone is ‘online connected’, countries’ profit taxation systems are still based on an economic reality of around a century ago. And that creates tension. The problems this tension causes are particularly evident in the case of profits generated by internet-related activities. The fact that these ‘online profits’ are difficult to tax is becoming increasingly critical, given the rising share of the economy now accounted for by digital activities. Although the time may not yet be ripe for fundamental reform, we perhaps ought in any event to start thinking about the direction in which our corporation tax systems should be moving. Suggestions in international tax literature, as well as from the OECD and EU, point in the direction of attributing the taxable base to the market jurisdiction; in other words, of imposing corporation tax on, or also on, the basis of the destination principle. There is certainly something to be said for these suggestions. The world is changing. And perhaps it is now time for our tax systems to change along with it.

Keywords: digital economy, corporate taxation, BEPS

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris, Tax Jurisdiction in a Digitalizing Economy; Why ‘Online Profits’ are so Hard to Pin Down (December 1, 2015). Intertax, Vol. 2015, Issue 12, pp. 796–803, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2702222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Walter See , Hellerstein
State Taxation of Electronic Commerce
52 Tax Law Review , volume 425 Posted: 1996
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
International Taxation of Electronic Commerce
Tax Law Review , volume 507 Posted: 1996
Charles E Mclure
Implementing State Corporate Income Taxes in the Digital Age
National Tax Journal , volume 4 , issue 53 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Dale Pinto
The Need to Reconceptualize the Permanent Establishment Threshold', 60 Bulletin for International Taxation Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
740
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,960
RANK
78,826
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies