Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Variables Associated with Four Key Determinants of Demand for Tax Preparer Services: An Exploratory Study

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 26, No. 3, 2012

Posted: 23 Dec 2015

Gary Fleischman

Texas Tech University

Teresa Stephenson

University of Wyoming - College of Business

Date Written: December 21, 2012

Abstract

There is a rich literature associated with the dichotomous decision to hire/not-hire tax preparation services. There is also some research assigning motivation to the decision to hire tax preparation services. However, no research has examined the underlying demographics and key perceptions of clients that do hire tax preparation professionals to determine which are associated with specific motivations to hire. We focus on the four most common motivations to hire a preparer found in extant literature (i.e., saving money, saving time, legal compliance, and protection from the IRS). Using survey data, we perform exploratory analysis using MANCOVA to discover what client demographics and perceptions underlie each motivation.

Our most noteworthy finding is that client perceptions of tax advocacy are positively associated with all four focal motivations to hire. Our results also suggest that female clients, more than male clients, choose tax preparers with a desire to save time and to be legally compliant. In addition, taxpayers with children tend to be more concerned with legal compliance. We also find that taxpayers with relatively complex returns are less likely to hire a preparer to provide a legally compliant return and to gain protection from the IRS.

Suggested Citation:

Fleischman, Gary and Stephenson, Teresa, Client Variables Associated with Four Key Determinants of Demand for Tax Preparer Services: An Exploratory Study (December 21, 2012). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 26, No. 3, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706794
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,087
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies