Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Bracket Creep and Tax Reform on Average Personal Income Tax Burden in Germany

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5626

20 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2015

Chang Woon Nam

CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Ifo Institute, Germany; University of Applied Management (UAM)

Christoph Zeiner

- Ifo Institute

Date Written: November 2015

Abstract

This study aims at contributing to the ongoing debates on the bracket creep, whether Germany needs an integration of inflation indexation into its personal income tax system in order to reduce distortions of tax liabilities and additional tax burdens. On the other hand, Germany has continuously flattened the personal income tax rates in the context of a series of tax reforms and modified its tax system. Under the consideration of the major goals of these reforms this study compares the extent to which the previous reform efforts, made in this country since 1958, have led to the change of the real, inflation-adjusted average personal income tax burden of the single earners in 2014. By doing so, it highlights that understanding the tax reform from a nominal point of view alone can fail to capture all the, also some ‘unexpected’, real changes in average tax burden, when the ‘hidden’ distortion caused by inflation prevails. According to the long-term real view adopted in this study, the evolution of German personal income tax system made the middle-income single earners worse-off, while the lower as well as the higher income groups are significantly better off.

Keywords: personal income taxation, bracket creep, real average tax burden, single earners, coefficient of residual income progression, Germany

JEL Classification: H210, H230, H240, H310

Suggested Citation:

Nam, Chang Woon and Zeiner, Christoph, Effects of Bracket Creep and Tax Reform on Average Personal Income Tax Burden in Germany (November 2015). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5626, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2706509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
672,864
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies