Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Taxes and Decisions of MNEs: Evidence from a Finnish Tax Reform

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5606

35 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2015

Jarkko Harju

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Seppo Juhani Kari

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research

Date Written: November 2015

Abstract

In this study we explore how a firm-level dividend tax on redistributed foreign profits affects the financial decisions of a multinational enterprise (MNE). We examine this by using evidence from a recent tax reform in Finland. The so-called equalization tax (EQT) used to be a regular element of European imputation systems, designed to ensure that dividends were not paid out of untaxed profits. Theoretical analyses have suggested that EQT may distort several financial decisions of MNEs. We find a 23 percent increase in dividend payments and a similar increase in repatriated foreign profits after the repeal of EQT among Finnish MNEs. We also find evidence that the reported profits increased among foreign subsidiaries of Finnish MNEs, which indicates an effect on profit-shifting. No change in investment was detected.

Keywords: taxation, multinational firms, firm behavior

JEL Classification: H250, F230, H320

Suggested Citation:

Harju, Jarkko and Kari, Seppo Juhani, Dividend Taxes and Decisions of MNEs: Evidence from a Finnish Tax Reform (November 2015). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5606, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2706407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational nancial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J S Alworth
The Finance, Investment and Taxation Decisions of Multinationals. Blackwell Posted: 1988
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance Through Transfer Pricing in the OECD Countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Bellak , M Leibrecht
Does Lowering Dividend Tax Rates Increase Dividends Repatriated? Evidence of Intrarm Cross-Border Dividend Repatriation Policies by German Multinational Enterprises
FinanzArchiv , volume 66 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,497
RANK
499,164
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies