Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Strategy in the Australian Dividend Imputation System

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28, Number 3, 523-553, 2013

32 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2015

Catherine Ikin

Australian National University (ANU) - School of Accounting & Business Information Systems

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the tax strategy of publicly-traded Australian companies in a dividend imputation system where corporate profits, if distributed as dividends, are ultimately taxed at the tax rates of Australian investors and corporate tax is a prepayment of investors’ tax. The study adopts the ratios of two effective tax rate measures to the corporate tax rate as the proxies for tax strategy and tests four hypotheses using the data for the period 1999 to 2003 when the corporate tax rate fell in two steps from 36% to 30%. The results show that companies distributing franked dividends adopt a more conservative tax strategy than those that are not. Managers remunerated with share options adopt conservative tax strategies. They also do not respond to opportunities to save tax in the years before reductions of corporate tax rate. Further, closer scrutiny by the Australian Taxation Office leads to more conservative tax strategies. The findings have important theoretical and policy implications.

Keywords: Corporate tax strategy, Dividend imputation system

Suggested Citation:

Ikin, Catherine and Tran, Alfred, Corporate Tax Strategy in the Australian Dividend Imputation System (September 1, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28, Number 3, 523-553, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2707989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
C P Stickney , V E Mcgee
Effective corporate tax rates: the effect of size, capital intensity, leverage, and other factors
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 1 , p. 125 - 152 Posted: 1982
Crossref
J L Zimmerman
Taxes and firm size
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , p. 119 - 149 Posted: 1983
Crossref
S Gupta , K Newberry
Determinants of the variability in corporate effective tax rates: evidence from longitudinal data
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1997
Crossref
K Holland
Accounting policy choice: the relationship between corporate tax burdens and company size
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
682,707
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies