Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking of Tax Journals – a Peer Perception Study

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 26, Number 2, 213-255.

44 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2015

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

The Australian Federal Government launched its Excellence in Research for Australia (ERA) initiative in February 2008. As part of the ERA exercise, the Australian Research Council (ARC), the peak research body in Australia, uses ranking of journals as a main indicator to assess research quality. In February 2010, the ARC released its revised ERA journal list in which academic journals of all disciplines are ranked into four tiers: A*, A, B and C. The present paper intends to serve a two-fold purpose. First, it critically reviews the ARC’s ranking methodology, with particular reference to tax journals. Second, it reports the findings of a study of Australasian tax academics’ perception of tax journal ranking in general and the ARC’s tax journal ranking in particular. The data of this study are obtained from an electronic survey of Australasian tax academics. A couple of findings emerge from the analysis of data. First, while recognising the importance of the ERA list, tax academics in Australia and New Zealand do not regard the ARC’s current ranking of tax journals as reliable. Second, although the ARC’s rankings of tax journals are compatible with the respondents’ rankings of tax journals in the relative sense, ARC’s rankings are in general lower than the rankings by the respondents. In particular, the perception of Australasian tax academics is that Australian Tax Forum should be ranked A*, Australian Tax Review and perhaps New Zealand Journal of Tax Law and Policy should be ranked A.

Keywords: Tax journals, journal ranking, peer perception study

Suggested Citation:

Tran-Nam, Binh and Tran, Alfred, Ranking of Tax Journals – a Peer Perception Study (June 1, 2011). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 26, Number 2, 213-255., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,097
RANK
342,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies