Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk as a Measure in Taxing Financial Arrangements

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 26, Number 4, 665-691

28 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2015

Gordon Mackenzie

University of New South Wales - Australian Taxation Studies Program (ATAX)

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

Recent reform of the Australian laws for taxing financial instruments are expressed in terms of risk for the purpose of identifying the relevant taxpayer or characterising a financial arrangement, rather than using the traditional drafting terms of legal ownership by a taxpayer or legal form of the financial arrangements. Generally, this change in the way that the laws are expressed is for either efficiency reasons, as in the case of Div. 250, or for integrity reasons, as in the case of the debt/equity rules and the TOFA rules.

This paper reviews several of the changes to the way that the Australian legislation for taxing financial instruments is drafted where, previously, legal concepts for identifying the taxpayer were used and legal form was used for characterising a financial instrument, to the use of risk for both those purposes. It argues that risk is a better measure of who the taxpayer is and what the financial instrument is because that is consistent with the way that commerce operates.

Keywords: Risk, taxing financial arrangements

Suggested Citation:

Mackenzie, Gordon and Tran, Alfred, Risk as a Measure in Taxing Financial Arrangements (December 1, 2011). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 26, Number 4, 665-691, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,547
RANK
703,106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies