Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Close are Taxable Income and Accounting Profit? An Empirical Study of Large Australian Companies

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28, Number 3, 641-677, 2013

38 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2015

Shirley Carlon

University of New South Wales

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

There has been a perception by the Australian public that ‘big’ Australian businesses do not pay their ‘fair’ share of income tax. This perception is primarily based on the belief that there exists a vast array of tax concessions available to companies in Australia. The present article examines the gap between taxable income and accounting profit of large Australian companies. This is achieved by estimating the effective tax rates (ETRs), defined as the ratio of income tax expense over accounting profit before tax, of 20 large (and highly visible) corporations in Australia for the six-year period from 2005 to 2010. Three measures of ETR, namely ETR, current and cash ETR are considered in this article. It is shown that while annual ETRs tend to fluctuate from year to year around the statutory tax rate, the aggregate ETRs of most companies are very close to the statutory tax rate. Thus, taxable income and accounting profit are very close for large Australian companies. These empirical findings are consistent with the Australian Government’s income tax base broadening policy which has, over the past 25 years, removed most tax concessions to companies.

Suggested Citation:

Carlon, Shirley and Tran, Alfred and Tran-Nam, Binh, How Close are Taxable Income and Accounting Profit? An Empirical Study of Large Australian Companies (September 1, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28, Number 3, 641-677, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,390
RANK
658,539
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies