Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Willing to Pay? The Politics of Trapping Down Faith in the Tax System in Post-Communist Romania

18 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2015 Last revised: 12 Apr 2016

Arpad A. Todor

National School of Political Science and Public Administration (NSPSPA)

Date Written: October 11, 2015

Abstract

Despite the fact that Romania has the lowest tax revenues as GDP percentage in the EU, the highest levels of tax evasion, and one of the worst performing tax collection systems, a recent experimental study on the willingness of subjects to comply with their tax obligations under various incentive structures found that, on average, Romanian subjects were highly cooperative and less likely to cheat, above the level identified in similar experiments in Italy and UK. This chapter explains these puzzling findings by investigating the process of post-communist de nuovo creation of an extensive and comprehensive tax systems, and its failure to motivate its citizens to actually pay their taxes. I argue that the structure of incentives’ created for both those paying mainly personal income taxes and entrepreneurs paying corporate income taxes made it very rational to avoid paying taxes: the instability and low quality of the legal framework in combination with the absence of political debate on fiscal issues, the high level of taxation combined with an widespread tax evasion, high tolerance for debts of SOEs (State Owned Enterprises) to state budget and constant erasing their debts, high level of corruption, low spending on infrastructure, low provision of public service and dismal social expenditures except the area of pensions – area with a broken connection between contribution and pension benefits – gave the impression that the average citizen does not receive too much from the state for his taxes, in a even and moral manner. Thus, the constant failure to create an adequate legitimacy for the tax system slowly decreased its capacity to directly tax citizens and companies and continuously increased its reliance on indirect taxes.

Keywords: tax policy, Romania, trust, experimental studies

Suggested Citation:

Todor, Arpad A., Willing to Pay? The Politics of Trapping Down Faith in the Tax System in Post-Communist Romania (October 11, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2708801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Eurostat: Indirect Taxes as % of Total Taxation -Total
Emilia Iolescu
Tara Noastra Se Afla Pe Ultimul Loc in UE, ca Procent de Colectare a TVA Posted: 2015-09-25
N Girouard , C Andre
Measuring Cyclically-Adjusted Budget Balances for OECD-Countries', OECD Economic Department Working Paper No. 434, 20 The low VAT collection capacity is a constant of the entire post-communist period, Romania ranked bottom in it's capacity to collect VAT (Value Added Tax), and by 2014 the VAT rate of evasion reaching 44%. 21 "Raport anual 2013 Consiliul Fiscal , volume 18 Posted: 2005-09-11
Consiliul Fiscal , volume 15 Posted: 2013-09-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
753,736
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies