Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ranking of Tax Journals – the Way Forward

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 24, Number 3, 341-371.

31 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2015

Kalmen H. Datt

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper is concerned with the ranking of academic tax journals. The project started as a response to the former federal government’s Research Quality Framework (RQF). The RQF has now been replaced by the Excellence in Research for Australia (ERA) initiative which, in many ways, is not unlike the RQF. As part of the ERA initiative, the Australian Research Council (ARC), the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC) and the Council of Australian Law Deans (CALD) all have released their lists of journal rankings. These lists include tax journals. The ranking of tax journals by the ARC and the ABDC are broadly similar.

The ARC’s and the ABDC’s ranking of tax journals are controversial and are not supported by Australian tax academics. There are omissions and inconsistencies. Most importantly, their ranking methodologies appear to be ad hoc, so it is virtually impossible to assess their validity. Most of the ranking problems seem to arise from the facts that tax research is multidisciplinary and tax issues tend to be country-specific. Thus, treating tax as a sub-discipline of accounting, finance or law and ranking tax journals with accounting, finance and law journals will invariably produce unsatisfactory and inconsistent results.

This scoping paper is part of an ongoing project on ranking of tax journals conducted by university researchers with different disciplinary backgrounds. Its principal aim is to derive an objective, rigorous and practical framework for ranking tax journals. The approach takes into account the multidisciplinary and country-specific nature of tax research. The methodology involves a mixture of surveys of tax academics’ perceptions of the quality of tax journals and assessment of impact based on citations. The proposed framework will be implemented with a view to generating a reliable and defensible ranking that would be accepted by the majority of tax researchers in Australasia.

Keywords: Tax journals, journal ranking

Suggested Citation:

Datt, Kalmen H. and Tran, Alfred and Tran-Nam, Binh, Ranking of Tax Journals – the Way Forward (September 1, 2009). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 24, Number 3, 341-371., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
RANK
444,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies