Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Tax Rates of Corporate Australia and the Book-Tax Income Gap

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 23, Number 3, 233-268.

36 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2015

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Yi Yu

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: September 1, 2008

Abstract

This study examines the effective tax rates of listed companies in Australia for a period of 11 years from 1994 to 2004. Two measures of effective tax rate are used: total tax expense divided by pre-tax accounting profit (ETR), and current tax expense divided by pre-tax accounting profit (ETR’). The difference between ETR and the statutory tax rate (STR) provides a measure of permanent differences. The difference between ETR’ and ETR provides a measure of timing differences. Thus, this study also examines the book-tax income gap.

The findings are summarised as follows. First, using the General Industry Classification Scheme (GICS), an industry effect is identified. Three industry groups consistently have ETR and ETR’ significantly different from the default industry group in the regression models. Also, using accounting profit as a proxy for firm size, a size effect is identified. The top 20 firms appear to have the lowest ETR, while medium firms appear to have the highest ETR’.

Second, most industries are found to have ETR significantly lower than STR. However, due to the smaller sample size and the larger standard errors of the ETR’ models, only about one-half of the industries have ETR’ significantly lower than STR despite the fact that the estimated ETR’ is lower than the estimated ETR. The magnitudes of permanent and timing differences vary widely across industries.

Finally, the book–tax income gap is found to have narrowed down in the period after the Review of Business Taxation (RBT). Thus, evidence suggests that the tax reform measures following the RBT are effective in reducing the book-tax income gap.

Keywords: Effective tax rate, current effective tax rate, book-tax income gap, Review of Business Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Alfred and Yu, Yi, Effective Tax Rates of Corporate Australia and the Book-Tax Income Gap (September 1, 2008). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 23, Number 3, 233-268., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
D Callihan
Corporate effective tax rates: a synthesis of the literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 13 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 1994
Dirkis , A Ting
Cataloguing business tax reform seven years on
Australian Tax Forum , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 601 - 646 Posted: 2006
D Fullerton
Which effective tax rate?
National Tax Journal , volume 37 , p. 36 - 56 Posted: 1984
Crossref
D Fullerton
The use of effective tax rates in tax policy
National Tax Journal , volume 39 , p. 283 - 292 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
597,018
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies