Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: The Public Transit Tax Credit -- Ridership and Distributional Impact

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 4, 2015

Posted: 6 Jan 2016

Vincent Chandler

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Date Written: January 6, 2016

Abstract

This article discusses the non-refundable public transit tax credit, which was introduced as a targeted incentive to promote public transit. The author provides an overview of the empirical literature studying the impact of the tax credit and finds that there is no evidence that the credit has had the intended effect on ridership. Since a tax credit not only creates incentives but also transfers income across households, the author also assesses the distributional impact of the tax credit. He finds that it was used disproportionately by taxfilers in wealthy households relative to those in lower-income households, thereby contributing to income inequality. However, in the author's view, the perceived political value of the tax credit may prevent its abolition despite evidence of its inefficiency.

Keywords: Income tax credits, tax incentives, public expenditures, economics

Suggested Citation:

Chandler, Vincent, Policy Forum: The Public Transit Tax Credit -- Ridership and Distributional Impact (January 6, 2016). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711759
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies