Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Loss Carrybacks: Investment Stimulus versus Misallocation

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Jul 2020 Last revised: 16 Oct 2017

Inga Bethmann

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

Date Written: October 16, 2017

Abstract

Tax regimes treat losses and profits asymmetrically when profits are immediately taxed but losses are not immediately refunded. We find that treating losses less asymmetrically by granting refunds less restrictively increases loss firms’ investment: A third of the refund is invested and the rest is held as cash or returned to shareholders. However, the investment response is driven primarily by firms prone to engage in risky overinvestment. Consistent with the risk of misallocation, we find a delayed exit of low-productivity loss firms receiving less restrictive refunds, indicating potential distortion of the competitive selection of firms. This distortion also negatively affects aggregate output and productivity. Our results suggest that stimulating loss firms’ investment with refunds unconditional on their future prospects comes at the risk of misallocation.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, tax policy, tax loss carryback, tax asymmetry, corporate investments, misallocation

JEL Classification: G31, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bethmann, Inga and Jacob, Martin and Müller, Maximilian A., Tax Loss Carrybacks: Investment Stimulus versus Misallocation (October 16, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2711808
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies