Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Crowdfunding: Income Tax Uncertainties and a Safe Harbor Test to Claim Gift Tax Exclusion

Kansas Law Review, Vol. 64, p. 143, 2015

43 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2016

Paul Battista

Independent

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Crowdfunding is the process of asking a large number of separate third parties for relatively small amounts of money to fund an endeavor. Although the concept of asking for financial “contributions” is not new, seeking funds from others via websites on the internet is relatively new. As with any distinctly new financing vehicle, there are many legal issues raised by crowdfunding that have not been explored or answered. One such issue is the income tax consequences associated with crowdfunding. The academy has not yet widely addressed the issues and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has yet to provide any formal guidance which has created a lack of clarity that needs to be addressed.

This article provides an overview of the most popular types of crowdfunding models and addresses the tax aspects of crowdfunding models that raise funds through a tax-exempt entity and that provide loans or equity investments through crowdfunding. The article also explores the tax uncertainties that arise under current income and gift tax laws and shows that the current tax laws do not provide bright-line answers to whether or not a crowdfunding transaction is taxable income or excluded from tax as a “gift.” However, it is further shown that there are guidelines that do emerge from current tax law that require administrative action by the IRS. It is recommended that to make the taxation of crowdfunding more efficient, equitable and easier to administer, the IRS should issue guidance stating that funds received in a crowdfunding campaign are gross income under Internal Revenue Code section 61. It is further recommended that the IRS should provide a safe harbor test as described in the article which taxpayers can use to determine if funds received in crowdfunding are gifts that are not subject to federal income tax.

Keywords: tax, crowdfunding

Suggested Citation:

Battista, Paul, The Taxation of Crowdfunding: Income Tax Uncertainties and a Safe Harbor Test to Claim Gift Tax Exclusion (September 1, 2015). Kansas Law Review, Vol. 64, p. 143, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2712788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Id
The company received approximately $28,800 in the first year, $158,870 in the second year, and $153,789 in the third year. Id. 206. Id. at 398-400. The court cited Teleservice Co
at 400. Although Teleservice was decided before Duberstein, the facts were similar to Publishers New Press because prospective customers were solicited by Teleservice Company to finance a community television system. Id. The court found that such payments were income because "the only way that the (corporation) could be induced to give service was by receipt of something in addition to the monthly charge, namely, contributions to enable it to construct extensions of the antenna system
722, aff'd, 254 F.2d 105 (3d Cir. 1958), as "somewhat analogous , volume 730
Id
, p. 398 - 99
Crossref
Id
at 401. The court also cited Webber v. Commissioner, 21 T.C. 742 (1954), aff'd
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,607
RANK
79,099
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies