Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heterogeneity in the Tax Responses of Personal Capital Gains Realizations

National Tax Journal, Vol. 65, No. 4, 2012

14 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016

Tim Dowd

Joint Committee on Taxation, U.S. Congress

Robert McClelland

Government of the United States of America - Congressional Budget Office (CBO)

Athiphat Muthitacharoen

Chulalongkorn University

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

This article investigates the heterogeneity in the tax elasticities of personal capital gains realizations. We first examine the skewed nature of both capital gains assets ownership and their realizations. We then briefly review earlier studies, including Dowd, McClelland, and Muthitacharoen (2012). Although not chosen for this purpose, the semi-log specification used in that study allows us to explore variation in elasticity estimates across taxpayers. Finally, we focus on variation in tax responses among different assets. The elasticities of corporate stock and mutual funds are lower than our overall elasticity, while the elasticity of bonds is greater.

Keywords: Capital Gains Taxation

JEL Classification: D12, H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

Dowd, Timothy and McClelland, Robert and Muthitacharoen, Athiphat, Heterogeneity in the Tax Responses of Personal Capital Gains Realizations (December 1, 2012). National Tax Journal, Vol. 65, No. 4, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Alan J Auerbach , Jonathan M Siegel
Capital Gains Realizations of the Rich and Sophisticated
American Economic Review , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 276 - 282 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Gerald E Auten , Charles T Clotfelter
Permanent versus Transitory Tax Effects and the Realization of Capital Gains
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 613 - 632 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Gerald E Auten , Joseph J Cordes
Policy Watch: Cutting Capital Gains Taxes
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 181 - 102 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Leonard E Burman , William C Randolph
Measuring Permanent Responses to Capital Gains Taxes in Panel Data
American Economic Review , volume 84 , issue 4 , p. 794 - 809 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,154
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies