Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Peer Effects

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2714468

49 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016 Last revised: 29 Oct 2017

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: July 5, 2017

Abstract

A growing literature examines how a firm’s behavior impacts the behavior of its peers. In this paper, we examine how changes in tax paying, and the associated financial reporting, impact a firm’s peers. Changes to tax paying and reporting behavior at other firms within a peer group can be affected by many of the same factors, such as industry-level tax policy changes or audit risk, so we make use of exogenous–to the peer firms–shocks to tax behavior. Following the methodology of Dyreng, Hanlon, and Maydew [2010], we estimate managerial tax avoidance fixed effects and use these to identify tax rate shocks associated with executive turnover. We find that peer firms respond to these shocks by changing their GAAP tax rates in the same direction. The magnitude of the effect corresponds to an approximately 10% response to the average change in peer group GAAP effective tax rates. Our evidence suggests that these peer effects occur only for book, rather than cash, effective tax rates. This finding of a differential response in financial reporting compared to tax payments is consistent with the primacy of earnings-based measures to managers and other capital market participants.

Keywords: effective tax rates, peer effects, taxes

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Edwards, Alexander S. and Ruchti, Thomas, Taxes and Peer Effects (July 5, 2017). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2714468, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Ana M Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Ana M Albuquerque , Gus De Franco , Rodrigo S Verdi
Peer choice in CEO compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 1 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Christopher S Armstrong , Jennifer L Blouin , David F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Anil Arya , Brian Mittendorf
Using disclosure to influence herd behavior and alter competition
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 231 - 246 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,084
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,779
RANK
46,719
35 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies