Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religiosity and Tax Compliance: Evidence from U.S. Counties

19 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016 Last revised: 10 Mar 2020

Sanghyun Hwang

Sangmyung University

Kadir Nagac

Roger Williams University

Date Written: March 1, 2020

Abstract

The intention of this paper is to analyze religiosity as a factor that potentially affects tax compliance. Studies in the 90s have shown that the puzzle of tax compliance is "why so many individuals pay their taxes" and not "why people evade taxes". It has been noted that compliance cannot be explained entirely by the level of enforcement (Graetz and Wilde, 1985; Efflers, 1991). Countries set the levels of audit and penalty so low that most individuals would evade taxes, if they were rational, because it is unlikely that cheaters will be caught and penalized. Nevertheless, a high degree of compliance is observed. Therefore, studies that analyze a variety of factors other than detection and punishment are need. Religiosity can play an important role in determining one's tax compliance decision. I use religious adherence data from the American Religious Data Archive and reported income data from IRS to analyze independent effects of church adherence rates on tax compliance in the United States at the county-level. Tax compliance at the county-level is measured as discrepancy in reported income between IRS data and census data. Existing studies focus on effect of religiosity on tax fraud acceptability (tax morale), not the actual tax fraud or tax compliance behavior. To writer's knowledge, this study is the first study that analyzes the effect of religiosity on actual tax compliance behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Sanghyun and Nagac, Kadir, Religiosity and Tax Compliance: Evidence from U.S. Counties (March 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Gary M Anderson
Mr. smith and the preachers: The economics of religion in the wealth of nations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 96 , issue 5 , p. 1066 - 1088 Posted: 1988-10
Crossref
M Gary , Robert D Anderson , Tollison
Morality and monopoly: The constitutional political economy of religious rules
Cato Journal , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 392 Posted: 1992
James Andreoni , Brian Erard , Jonathan Feinstein
Tax compliance. Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998-06
Jonathan C Baldry
Income tax evasion and the tax schedule: Some experimental results
Public Finance , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 383 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,687
RANK
120,023
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies