Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Taxation after the Crisis: Why BEPS and MAATM are Inadequate Responses, and What Can Be Done About It

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 494

51 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016 Last revised: 11 Feb 2016

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Haiyan Xu

University of Michigan Law School; University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) Law School

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

In the early 21st century most cross-border income is untaxed. In the case of multinationals, this is because the source jurisdiction either lacks the authority to tax because in the age of electronic commerce it is easy to avoid the required physical presence in the source country; or because source jurisdictions grant tax holidays to multinationals. Residence jurisdictions do not tax active income currently for fear that multinationals will establish their headquarters elsewhere, as the current US inversion saga confirms. In the case of individuals, exchange of information has not proven effective in deterring tax evasion via offshore secrecy jurisdictions, and no withholding taxes are levied by source jurisdictions.

The problem with this state of affairs is that in the absence of taxation of cross-border flows, the progressive income tax cannot be maintained, because it is easier for the wealthy to earn cross-border income. The result has been a world-wide shift to taxing consumption rather than income. But consumption taxes are regressive, and cannot by definition reach the unconsumed income of the rich. And without progressive taxation, it will not be possible to maintain the public's commitment to social insurance that is globalization's main defense against growing inequality.

While both the MAATM and the BEPS projects are helpful, neither is likely to solve the underlying issues described above. In both cases the problem is that too many countries need to cooperate for the regime to be effective. In the case of MAATM, every tax haven has to sign on because otherwise all the funds can be routed through the non-cooperating haven. We are far from there, and the US has not implemented MAATM (it has implemented FATCA, but that applies only for US residents and can be avoided by using financial institutions with no US presence.)

In the case of BEPS, the project only addresses artificial profit shifting, not tax competition, and it only applies to the OECD and G20, not to the many source countries outside these two organizations. Thus, it is likely that multinationals can avoid BEPS by sourcing income in countries that are not subject to it.

Fundamentally, if the income tax is to be preserved in the 21st century, multilateral solutions are needed. Both MAATM and BEPS are such solutions but they are hampered by the focus on residence jurisdictions for passive income and source jurisdictions for active income. There are too many residence jurisdictions in the first case, since every country has rich people, and too many source jurisdictions in the second, since multinationals operate globally.

Thus, in our opinion it is time to re-evaluate the benefits principle. Most of the current issues can be solved if we taxed passive income primarily at source and active income primarily at residence.

Keywords: BEPS, MAATM, tax competition, tax coordination

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Xu, Haiyan and Xu, Haiyan, Global Taxation after the Crisis: Why BEPS and MAATM are Inadequate Responses, and What Can Be Done About It (January 15, 2016). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 494, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
I R C See
A). (For more information , volume 862
Susan C Morse
Lynnley Browning , U S
tax agency to strengthen program to catch offshore tax evasion Posted: 2008
Lynnley Browning , U S
Ends Inquiry of UBS Over Offshore Tax Evasion
N.Y Times Posted: 2010
Load more
6 Citations
R. García Antón
The 21st Century Multilateralism in International Taxation: The Emperor’s New Clothes?
World Tax Journal , volume 8 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Orli Avi-Yonah
Be Careful What You Wish For? Reducing Inequality in the 21st Century
U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-002, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 547 · 15 Pages · Posted: 26 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 13 May 2017 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Oleksandr Khlopenko
International Anti-Money Laundering Regulations Through the Prism of Financial Inclusion and Competition
YEARBOOK of ANTITRUST and REGULATORY STUDIES 2019, 12(19) · 15 Pages · Posted: 20 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlo Garbarino
Permanent Establishment and the Beps Project (Action 7): Perspectives in Evolution
Intertax, vol. 47(4), pp. 365-381, 2019 · 24 Pages · Posted: 21 May 2020 · Downloads: 230
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,883
RANK
55,609
6 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies