Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating BEPS

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 493

56 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016 Last revised: 16 Feb 2016

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Haiyan Xu

University of Michigan Law School; University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

Following the financial crisis and ensuing austerity, politicians discovered the problem of tax avoidance. In response, the OECD and G20 launched the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project in 2013, and this has in October, 2015 culminated with the release of a series of action steps that the OECD and G20 countries have undertaken to adopt. OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurria has stated that "Base erosion and profit shifting affects all countries, not only economically, but also as a matter of trust. BEPS is depriving countries of precious resources to jump-start growth, tackle the effects of the global economic crisis and create more and better opportunities for all. But beyond this, BEPS has been also eroding the trust of citizens in the fairness of tax systems worldwide. The measures we are presenting today represent the most fundamental changes to international tax rules in almost a century: they will put an end to double non-taxation, facilitate a better alignment of taxation with economic activity and value creation, and when fully implemented, these measures will render BEPS-inspired tax planning structures ineffective".

Is Mr. Gurria justified in his optimism? We do not think so. These efforts are commendable and to some extent have an impact. But in our opinion they are inadequate. The basic problem is that they take as a given the fundamental consensus underlying the international tax regime, also known as the "benefits principle". Under the benefits principle, active (business) income should be taxed primarily at source while passive (investment) income should be taxed primarily at residence. This compromise between the claims of residence and source countries was reached by the four economists in 1923 and still serves as the foundation of the international tax regime. It is embedded in over 3,000 bilateral tax treaties and in the domestic laws of the US and most other countries. Not surprisingly, it is also reflected in BEPS, which is an attempt to improve source-based taxation of active income.

In our opinion, this consensus should be reconsidered in light of current realities. The shortcomings of BEPS are directly related to its reliance on the benefits principle, because upholding it requires cooperation by too many jurisdictions.

Keywords: BEPS, tax competition, tax coordination

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Xu, Haiyan and Xu, Haiyan, Evaluating BEPS (January 15, 2016). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 493, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Gil Savir
IGAs vs. MAATM: Has Tax Bilateralism Outlived Its Usefulness?
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 384, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-002 Pages: 16 Posted: 9 Feb 2014 Last revised: 18 Feb 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
What Goes Around Comes Around: Why the US is Responsible for Capital Flight (and What it Can Do about It)
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 307 Pages: 5 Posted: 29 Jan 2013 Last revised: 4 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
I R
Crossref
Itai Grinberg
The Battle over Taxing Offshore Accounts
UCLA Law Review , volume 60 , p. 304 - 383 Posted: 2012
Load more
5 Citations
Kürşat Yalçiner , Erkan Ertürk
Türkiye’de Faaliyette Bulunan Çok Uluslu Şirketlerin Kontrolündeki Yabancı Şirketlerin Vergi Yüklerinin Analizi
Maliye Finans Yazıları , volume 1 , issue 109 , p. 181 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Reuven Avi-Yonah , Haiyan Xu
China and BEPS
Laws , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 4 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Orli Avi-Yonah
Be Careful What You Wish For? Reducing Inequality in the 21st Century
U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-002, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 547 · 15 Pages · Posted: 26 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 13 May 2017 · Downloads: 213
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amedeo Rizzo
The Role of Corporate Residence in Tax Matters and Its Relationship With the Provision of Dividend Relief: A Comparative Analysis Between the UK and the US Tax Systems
International Journal of Accounting and Taxation, June 2019, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 35-39 · 5 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2020 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,960
RANK
12,338
5 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies