Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relation between Auditor Quality and Corporate Tax Aggressiveness: Implications of Cross-Country Institutional Differences

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 35, No. 4, 2016

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-37

59 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016 Last revised: 27 Feb 2017

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Abstract

Using an international sample of firms from 31 countries, we study the relation between auditor quality and corporate tax aggressiveness. Using an indicator variable for tax aggressiveness when the firm’s corporate tax avoidance measure is within the top quintile of each country-industry combination, we find strong evidence that auditor quality is negatively associated with the likelihood of tax aggressiveness, even after controlling for other institutional determinants such as home-country tax system characteristics. We also find that the negative relation between auditor quality and the likelihood of tax aggressiveness is more pronounced in countries where investor protection is stronger, auditor litigation risk is higher, the audit environment is better, and capital market pressure is higher.

Keywords: Auditor Quality; Corporate Tax Aggressiveness; Investor Protection; Litigation Risk; Audit Environment; Capital Market Pressure

JEL Classification: M42, M48, H20, F30

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Relation between Auditor Quality and Corporate Tax Aggressiveness: Implications of Cross-Country Institutional Differences. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 35, No. 4, 2016, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,069
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,713
RANK
47,637
4 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies