Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Harmonization in the EU: Insights on Political and Legal Fusion Under Neofunctional Rationale

32 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016 Last revised: 21 May 2020

Shafi U Khan Niazi

Monash Business School

Date Written: January 16, 2016

Abstract

The traditional narrative is that direct taxes in EU remain non-harmonized since decisions in this domain originate solely from intergovernmental bargains, often exemplified as failure of legal, political and economic integration. The article reviews this conventional notion that European tax harmonization process draws truly on national choices of Member States. The study does not out rightly discard the national role in pooling EU-level tax mandate but rather seeks to assign it a temporal dimension under neofunctional integration model. Considering the intergovernmental decision-making in isolation, akin to that of traditional nation-state in the global arena, may create a misleading conception in the EU context. While European Member States might seem to be the sole actors of EU-level tax policymaking, yet there exist other players that shape or even push members’ decision-making processes. To this end, the study seeks to capture the key developments instrumental to the legal, political and economic fusion in the European construct. It concludes that (direct) tax policy domain – a symbol of fiscal sovereignty of Member States and unspoken supranational regime in EU law – is also not impervious to neofunctional political rationale and consequential processes of law-creation.

Keywords: European integration, tax politics, neofunctional politics, tax harmonization, intergovernmental politics, economic integration, differentiated integration

Suggested Citation:

Khan Niazi, Shafi Ullah, Tax Harmonization in the EU: Insights on Political and Legal Fusion Under Neofunctional Rationale (January 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
J. Korecko , R. Bacik , I. Voznakova
Public Administration in EU: Harmonization of Income Taxes
Marketing and Management of Innovations , issue 4 , p. 280 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,960
RANK
407,466
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies