Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Perspective on Citizenship Taxation

Michigan Journal of International Law, Vol. 38, No. 2, 2017

52 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016 Last revised: 17 Sep 2017

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 18, 2016

Abstract

Across the globe, banks are flagging accounts with indicia indicating their owners may be "US Persons", making it possible for the United States to enforce its taxation of nonresident citizens extraterritorially for the first time in history. The indicia method constitutes a mining expedition for US citizens carried out by foreign banks and governments. Establishing a tax jurisdiction in this manner is unprecedented, enlisting major foreign assistance to dramatically expand the enforcement of the U.S. tax jurisdiction over a globally dispersed population, after a century of neglect and apparent indifference. While supporting effective information exchange as to residents aligns with globally accepted tax jurisdiction norms, the reach to nonresident US citizens is not. Unexamined acquiescence to U.S. citizenship-based taxation is not warranted; consistent with international law, other governments can and should protest that the U.S. tax reach deviates from fundamental international tax norms and virtually universal practices, violates the core international law principle of nonintervention, and compels states to visit unnecessary harms upon their own populations. No other state should be willing to assist in effectuating the injustice that must follow from the U.S. effort to tax nonresidents on a worldwide basis on the sole grounds of their status as U.S. citizens. The international community would be justified to, at minimum, insist that the United States catalogue its own taxpayer population, inform this population of its status, and educate it of the attendant obligations, before turning to other countries to assist in the task.

Keywords: FATCA, citizenship, taxpayer rights, taxation, tax policy, administration, global governance, international relations

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H87, F02, F50, F53, F59, Z13, E63, H2, K33, K34, N40, P45

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, A Global Perspective on Citizenship Taxation (January 18, 2016). Michigan Journal of International Law, Vol. 38, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2717367 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2717367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J Clifton Fleming , Jr Robert , J Peroni &amp; Stephen , E Shay
explaining the distinct theories of like treatment of equallyresourced taxpayers as horizontal equity and different treatment of differently-resourced taxpayers as vertical equity and analyzing these concepts as the normative foundations of just taxation); see also , volume 299 , p. 301 - 316 Posted: 2001
Nancy H Kaufman
Fairness and the Taxation of International Income, 29 L. & POL'Y INT'L BUS , volume 145 Posted: 1998
Joseph M Dodge
examining the notions of horizontal and vertical equity as key elements of taxation in accordance with ability to pay, and why ability to pay is a normatively justified rationale for taxation
Theories of Tax Justice: Ruminations on the Benefit, Partnership, and Ability-to-Pay Principles, 58 TAX L. REV , volume 399 Posted: 2005
See Christians, Drawing the Boundaries, supra note 50 , volume 53
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,896
RANK
74,813
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies