Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficiency and Progressivity Measures of the Flat Tax with a Special Focus on Bosnia and Herzegovina

International Public Administration Review, Vol. 13, No. 3–4/2015

17 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2016

Lejla Lazović Pita

University of Sarajevo, School of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 21, 2015

Abstract

The research begins with a brief overview of the personal income taxation trends in developed and transition countries in the past thirty years. During this period there has been a shift in developed countries from equity towards efficiency principle, conducted by a reduction of top progressive personal income tax rates and through base broadening. For selected transition countries, we develop a theoretical benchmark model under flat tax and compare it in practice in order to measure efficiency in terms of tax neutrality. We find a very few characteristics of theoretical flat tax applied in practice causing inefficiency. We also analyse the progressivity indicators as an equity enhancing measure under flat tax. Progressivity indicators are very low and are a result of the flat PIT and flat social security contributions. Finally, for the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, efficiency and progressivity measures can be enhanced indicating that PIT reforms should be brought together with reforming social security contributions.

Keywords: income, flat tax, transition, progressivity indicator

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Lazović Pita, Lejla, Efficiency and Progressivity Measures of the Flat Tax with a Special Focus on Bosnia and Herzegovina (June 21, 2015). International Public Administration Review, Vol. 13, No. 3–4/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
N Andel
Posted: 1998
M Arandarenko , V Vukojevic
Labor Costs and Labor Taxes in the Western Balkans Posted: 2008
A Aristovnik , A Obadić
The impact and efficiency of public administration excellence on fostering SMEs in EU countries
Amfiteatru economic , volume 17 , issue 39 , p. 761 - 774 Posted: 2015
A B Atkinson , T Piketty , E Saez
Top Incomes in the Long Run of History (No. w15408). Retrieved 10. 1
Council of Ministers of B&H, Annual economic report -economic trends for years Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
759,919
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies