Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intergovernmental Agreements and the Implementation of FATCA in Europe

World Tax Journal Vol. 7, No. 2, 2015

29 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2016

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: June 24, 2015

Abstract

FATCA is a US domestic tax policy that requires Foreign Financial Institutions around the world to provide the IRS information regarding their US clients. Recognizing this extraterritorial characteristic and the troubles associated with it, the US Treasury Department developed the Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs), which have served the double purpose of coordinating FATCA at an international level and influencing the new international standards on automatic exchange of information. Nevertheless, the IGAs are instruments that still need to be improved, at least in order to guarantee their successful implementation in Europe. The first part of this article explores the legal nature and the characteristic of the IGAs, concluding that they possess an asymmetric legal nature that can lead to conflicts of interpretation. Likewise, it concludes that their contribution toward international transparency is incompatible with the existence of other instruments in Europe that seek the opposite goal of protecting bank secrecy, although it recognizes the importance of the most recent achievements at the European level in order to ensure a coherent and consistent system of automatic exchange of information. The second part of this article analyses three grey areas in the IGAs implementation process in Europe (i.e., “quoted Eurobonds” in the United Kingdom; group requests under the Switzerland-United States IGA, and the “coordination timing” provision of the IGA Model 1A), concluding that there is still work to be done in order for the IGAs to grant an acceptable level of reciprocity in practice.

Keywords: FATCA, Intergovernmental Agreements, US International Tax Law, EU Tax Law, Tax Evasion, Tax Avoidance, Exchange of Information, Eurobonds

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H77, H87, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, Intergovernmental Agreements and the Implementation of FATCA in Europe (June 24, 2015). World Tax Journal Vol. 7, No. 2, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2720182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Questions and Answers on Automatic Exchange of Information -Partner countries Posted: 2015-01-14
on Taxation of Saving Income in the Form of Interest Payments
OJ , volume 48 Posted: 2003-06
Cavelti
See also Grinberg, supra n , volume 59
Basically Austria , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , San Monaco , Marino
Switzerland and some associated territories of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. See Cavelti, supra n , volume 59
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,535
RANK
146,434
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies