Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspectives on the Relationship between Tax and Financial Accounting

CONTROVERSIES IN TAX LAW (Anthony C. Infanti ed., 2015)

Posted: 25 Jan 2016

Lily Kahng

Seattle University School of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

This book chapter analyzes similarities and differences between financial and tax accounting with a view toward understanding how financial accounting might inform and improve tax accounting and vice versa. It begins with a brief overview of the historical relationship between the two and discusses how lawmakers and scholars have traditionally thought about that relationship — one in which financial accounting tends to understate income out of a reflexive conservatism, while tax accounting, ever protective of the fisc, tends to overstate income. The chapter then turns to what I call the “modern era,” in which the traditional values and policies promoted by each system have reversed, with financial accounting overstating income and tax accounting understating it. It considers whether the two systems can benefit by requiring greater conformity or disclosure of the differences between them. The next part of the chapter explores how the financial and tax accounting systems treat intellectual capital, a vital and growing driver of global economic productivity. It finds that the two systems are relatively aligned at this time but are trending in opposite directions. Financial accounting is poised to make significant changes that will more accurately measure income from intellectual capital while tax accounting has regressed to a less accurate treatment of intellectual capital. The chapter argues that tax accounting for intellectual capital can and should be informed by the research and reforms taking place in financial accounting. The final part of the chapter discusses how my endorsement of a close relationship between financial and tax accounting differs from Adam Chodorow’s perspective, set forth in a separate chapter. Chodorow advocates that we adopt the cash method of accounting for tax purposes. Alternatively, he argues that the courts and the IRS can effectively police abuses under the current law accrual method. I argue that the accrual method should be retained for tax purposes because it more accurately measures economic income than the cash method. Furthermore, I argue that legislative reform is far superior to judicial and regulatory oversight to defend against abuses of the accrual method.

Note: Note: This book chapter was published in CONTROVERSIES IN TAX LAW (Anthony C. Infanti ed., 2015). Due to copyright restrictions, only an abstract of the chapter may be posted. Please contact the author for more information.

Keywords: tax, accounting

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kahng, Lily, Perspectives on the Relationship between Tax and Financial Accounting (January 1, 2015). CONTROVERSIES IN TAX LAW (Anthony C. Infanti ed., 2015) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2720480
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies