Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonrecurring Income Taxes

75 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2016 Last revised: 12 Jul 2021

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Colin Koutney

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: July 2021

Abstract

Nonrecurring income taxes are transitory items that exclusively affect earnings through tax expense. We conduct the first in-depth examination of nonrecurring income taxes to determine whether they are primarily attributable to economic events or managerial opportunism. We find nonrecurring income taxes have little predictive power for future earnings, are not associated with meeting or beating analyst earnings forecasts, and are not associated with future tax expense restatements. We also provide descriptive information about the tax events that frequently result in nonrecurring income taxes and find the most common events are tax audit resolutions, valuation allowance changes, tax law changes, mergers, and repatriations. Overall, our findings suggest that nonrecurring income taxes are driven by economics rather than opportunism. We recommend researchers consider whether the inclusion of nonrecurring income taxes (or specific types of nonrecurring taxes) is appropriate when using ETR levels or volatility as measures of tax risk, avoidance or aggressiveness.

Keywords: Nonrecurring Income Taxes, Accounting for Income Taxes, ASC 740

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Koutney, Colin and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F., Nonrecurring Income Taxes (July 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2720464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2720464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
571
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,321
RANK
110,001
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies