Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax-Transparent Entity in the International Conflict of Laws

Southern Methodist University Law Review, Vol. 68, p. 675, 2015

UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2722778

14 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016

Richard M. Buxbaum

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; University of California, Berkeley - Berkeley Center on Comparative Equality & Anti-Discrimination Law

Date Written: July 31, 2015

Abstract

The OECD BEPS (Base Erosion/Price Shifting) reform proposals in the Tax-Transparent Entities sector do not aim for uniform law through treaty or other harmonization channels, but focus on domestic legal rules to prevent “dual deduction” and “no tax” avoidance strategies. As a result, principles of the international conflict of laws remain important, especially in the context of entity characterization. This contribution to a Memorial Volume in Memory of Alan Bromberg briefly reviews these principles, using the differences between the functional and case-specific approach of the Federal Republic of Germany and the categorical approach of the United States as they bear on participants who are the subjects of one legal regime in entities formed under the laws of the other.

Keywords: taxation, conflict of laws

JEL Classification: E62, H2, K33

Suggested Citation:

Buxbaum, Richard M., The Tax-Transparent Entity in the International Conflict of Laws (July 31, 2015). Southern Methodist University Law Review, Vol. 68, p. 675, 2015, UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2722778, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Berkeley School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies