Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of CFC Regimes in Latin America

Tax Notes International, Vol. 68, No. 10, 2012

17 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: December 3, 2012

Abstract

This paper provides a brief comparative analysis between the Controlled Foreign Corporations rules ("CFCs rules") in Latin American countries and in the United States, the pioneer country in developing this kind of anti-deferral rules in 1962. The author concludes that the effectiveness of the current and future CFC regimes in the Latin America will depend on how countries face the new challenges affecting anti-deferral rules, specifically the characterization of passive and active income under an e-commerce era and the proliferation of hybrid entities.

Keywords: CFC rules, anti-deferral, deferral, U.S. tax law, Latin America, passive income, active income

JEL Classification: K33, K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, A Comparative Analysis of CFC Regimes in Latin America (December 3, 2012). Tax Notes International, Vol. 68, No. 10, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
S A Eagle Distribuidora De Bebidas
Second Group of the Revenue Department in Brasilia-DF, Brazilian First Council of Taxpayers Posted: 2008-12-17
Freita De Moraes E Castro
According to the court decision, Eagle Distribuidora de Bebidas S.A. specifically owned 99.999995 percent of Jalua S.A., which in turn owned two corporations, Monthiers (wholly owned) and CCBA (70 percent). The remaining 0.000005 percent of Jalua S , volume 14
See supra Section II
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
307,614
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies