Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Experience with Futures Transactions Taxes: Effects in a Highly Intermediated Market

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2016 Last revised: 30 Jan 2016

Scott Mixon

Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Date Written: January 27, 2016

Abstract

The transactions tax on futures sharply reduced trading volume on wheat and corn contracts during the 1920s and 1930s but had no apparent effect on volatility or market quality. I find no evidence of a tax effect on open interest: I hypothesize this is because the relative magnitude of the tax was significantly higher for intermediaries than for other participants. Instead, the tax appears to have substantially reduced intra-day trading but not longer-term positioning. Volume-related proxies of liquidity therefore exhibit a strong relation with tax rates, but other measures of market quality show no relation to tax rates. In the long-run, however, exchange members doubled the minimum tick size in order to retain a large number of market makers and offset the impact of the tax.

Keywords: futures market, transactions tax, liquidity

JEL Classification: G14, G18, H32, N22

Suggested Citation:

Mixon, Scott, U.S. Experience with Futures Transactions Taxes: Effects in a Highly Intermediated Market (January 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2723602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2723602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
640,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies