Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ Earnings Surprise Components and Future Earnings Performance

41 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2016 Last revised: 12 Mar 2016

Michael Calegari

Santa Clara University - Accounting

Michael Eames

Santa Clara University - Accounting

Date Written: February 2016

Abstract

Our paper examines the association between components of analysts’ earnings surprises and future earnings. We decompose the analysts’ earnings surprise into its revenue, pretax margin, pretax income, and tax components. After controlling for current period earnings and discretionary accruals, we find that each component is positively associated with future earnings. When we form portfolios based on the sign of the earnings surprise and its components, we find that the future earnings of firms that meet revenue, pretax income, and net income expectations is significantly greater than firms that only meet net income expectations. Supplemental analysis shows that the significant association between future earnings and the revenue and pretax income components of the earnings surprise persists for at least three years. However, the association between the tax surprise and future earnings dissipates after one year. Overall, our evidence shows that decomposing earnings surprises into its components can assist investors in identifying firms that are associated with better future performance.

Keywords: Earnings Surprise, Analyst Forecast Errors, Earnings Persistence, Taxes, Revenue Surprises, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Calegari, Michael and Eames, Michael, Analysts’ Earnings Surprise Components and Future Earnings Performance (February 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
262,460
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies