Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Destination-Based Income Taxation and WTO Law: A Note

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2016-3

18 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2016

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Date Written: January 2016

Abstract

In recent years, there is a growing tendency in international taxation to move the right to tax the corporate income of multinational enterprises to the jurisdiction where their customer base is located. One widely discussed proposal applies a sales-only formula to group-wide profits of multinationals (or to the residual profit of the firm after allocating routine returns to local production factors). A more recent proposal pleads for a “destination-based corporate income tax” including border adjustments for value transfers between countries. This article lays out the constraints existing under WTO law, in particular the non-discrimination rules of the GATT and the prohibition on export subsidies under the ASCM. It turns out that while the general move towards a destination basis is not a problem under WTO law (even for direct taxes), border adjustments are more critical due to their tendency to benefit local production.

Keywords: International taxation, multinationals, destination-based taxation, WTO law, GATT, ASCM

JEL Classification: F13, F15, F23, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, Destination-Based Income Taxation and WTO Law: A Note (January 2016). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2016-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
22 Citations
Willem H. Buiter
Exchange rate implications of Border Tax Adjustment Neutrality
Economics , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Johannes Becker , Joachim Englisch
Unilateral introduction of destination-based cash-flow taxation
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 495 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Taxing Profit in a Global Economy
, p. iv Posted: 2021
Crossref
Michael P. Devereux , Alan J. Auerbach , Michael Keen , Paul Oosterhuis , Wolfgang Schön , John Vella
Taxing Profit in a Global Economy
, p. 267 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
935
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,776
RANK
57,392
22 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies