Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybrid Entities in Australia: Resource Capital Fund III LP Case

TAX TREATY CASE LAW AROUND THE GLOBE 2015, IBFD, The Netherlands, 2016

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/09

17 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2016 Last revised: 31 Mar 2016

Richard J. Vann

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: February 8, 2016

Abstract

The RCF case raises a number of issues in relation to the principles in the OECD Partnership Report on the application of tax treaties to hybrid entities. The judgments do not finally settle the status of those principles in Australia but they point more to approval of the principles than rejection of them. The treaty concerned in fact had a specific provision dealing with partnerships which did not apply to the LP in question and the judgments seem to accept that Partnership Report principles could still apply even in the presence of a treaty provision. With the OECD now proposing the adoption of a fiscally transparent treaty provision in the OECD Model, the judgments are interesting for their comments on potential problems in existing variants found in tax treaties. Procedural questions are raised about how partners in an LP which is regarded as fiscally transparent by their residence country can assert their treaty rights under Partnership Report principles when the source country regards the LP as a foreign resident company and as the taxpayer. The only concrete solution discussed in the RCF proceedings is the mutual agreement procedure, which is hardly satisfactory since tax treaties are designed to give taxpayers enforceable rights under domestic law.

Keywords: Tax treaties, hybrid entities, Australia

JEL Classification: K10, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Vann, Richard J., Hybrid Entities in Australia: Resource Capital Fund III LP Case (February 8, 2016). TAX TREATY CASE LAW AROUND THE GLOBE 2015, IBFD, The Netherlands, 2016, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
393,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies