Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Intentional Tax Error Using Open Source Literature and Data

97 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Ju-Sung Lee

Carnegie Mellon University - School of Computer Science

Kathleen M. Carley

Carnegie Mellon University; Carnegie Mellon University - H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management; Institute for Software Research - Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: November 5, 2009

Abstract

Intentional non-compliance in providing accurate income tax returns, also known as ‘tax evasion’ or ‘intentional error’, has been studied from both attitudinal and socio-demographic perspectives. A significant portion of previous research employs a common set of indicators, which we can exploit by pooling meta-analytically with the hopes of obtaining a unified, well-predicting model of intentional error. Towards this end, we turn to a large, nationally representative data source, namely the Census Bureau’s Public-Use Microdata Samples (PUMS), as our source of covariance between the socio-demographic covariates of interest. Additionally, the same source offers data on potential opportunities of evasion for each PUMS respondent (or agent), in certain line item/taxpayer categories, allowing us to construct distinct error models for these categories. Furthermore, we extend the error model to include attitudinal meta-analysis, by linking the General Social Survey (GSS) to the PUMS through imputation of a GSS covariate that identifies respondents who are more likely to break the law. Our meta-analysis requires an in-depth re-analysis of the selection of previously published results on non-compliance. The result is a comprehensive model of non-compliance that fits historical, published data and that can be applied generically and to specific tax issues.

Keywords: tax evasion, non-compliance, intentional error, meta analysis

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Ju-Sung and Carley, Kathleen M., Predicting Intentional Tax Error Using Open Source Literature and Data (November 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2729255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
James Alm , Gary H Mcclelland , William D Schulze
Why Do People Pay Taxes?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
Crossref
James Andreoni , Brian Erard , Jonathan Feinstein
Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Gerrit Antonides , Henry S J Robben
True positives and false alarms in the detection of tax evasion
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 16 , p. 617 - 640 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Luis Antunes , João Balsa , Paulo Urbano , Luis Moniz , Catarina Roseta-Palma
Tax Compliance in a Simulated Heterogeneous Multi-agent Society
In Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence , volume 3891 , p. 147 - 161 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
785,592
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies