Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Lives of Uber Drivers: Evidence from Internet Discussion Forums

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 8, 2017

Tulane Public Law Research Paper No.16-4

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper, No. 391

73 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2016 Last revised: 3 Mar 2017

Shu-Yi Oei

Duke University School of Law

Diane M. Ring

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: February 10, 2016

Abstract

In this Article, we investigate the tax issues and challenges facing Uber and Lyft drivers by studying their online interactions in three internet discussion forums. Using descriptive statistics and content analysis, we examine (1) the substantive tax concerns facing forum participants, (2) how taxes affect their driving and profitability decisions, and (3) the degree of user sophistication, accuracy of legal advising, and other cultural features of the forums.

We find that while forum participants displayed generally accurate understandings of tax filing and income inclusion obligations, their approaches to expenses and deductions were less accurate and more varied in sophistication and willingness to comply with tax law. Forum participants also frequently discussed whether driving was profitable and exhibited a range of awareness concerning how taxes affected profitability. Finally, while the forums contained a surprising degree of sophisticated and accurate tax and legal advice, they also contained many examples of inaccurate or confusing information. It is thus uncertain whether readers can successfully distinguish between accurate and inaccurate advice dispensed in the forums.

Based on our findings, we make tentative recommendations for effective tax administration in the ridesharing and related sectors, including use of industry-specific guidance, clarification of how existing tax rules apply to ridesharing, and guidance on Form 1099-K interpretation. We analyze the implications of our findings regarding taxes and profitability for Uber’s business model and its potential regulation. Finally, we discuss the possible impacts of targeted tax compliance initiatives on internet communities.

Keywords: sharing economy, 1099 economy, gig economy, Uber, lyft, peer to peer consumption, ridesharing, taxation, tax policy, tax administration, labor law, empirical legal studies, law & society, law in action, cyberspace, internet, qualitative analysis, content analysis

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H25, H26, H29, H52, J41, K20, K23, K34, L51, L62

Suggested Citation:

Oei, Shu-Yi and Ring, Diane M., The Tax Lives of Uber Drivers: Evidence from Internet Discussion Forums (February 10, 2016). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 8, 2017, Tulane Public Law Research Paper No.16-4, Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper, No. 391, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2730893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
There were a number of questions that did not make sense on TurboTax. 202 Admittedly, however, it was difficult to get a robust sense of poster sophistication on TurboTax because there was much less back-and-forth conversation: participants tended to pose a question, and then a TurboTax employee, professional, or "superuser" would answer that question. 2. Process of Error Correction and Disapproval. Another interesting feature was the process by which disagreement was expressed and errors corrected on Reddit and Uberpeople. When a poster said something wrong (e.g., took a wrong tax reporting position or gave an inaccurate answer to some else's question), the error was often, and often quickly
questions about where and how to enter income, whether they had to file taxes, what software to use, and what to do with Form 1099
Lyft Form 1099-K, others (including some marketers of tax services) pointed out the audit risk and the obligation to include income
E G See
USER27 ("how do I add mileage to my return? I am an Uber driver and need to add mileage to my return
Does Uber count as public transportation for tax purposes?")
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
915
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,224
RANK
59,211
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tulane University School of Law Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies