Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Taxes and Married Women's Labour Supply

M.A. Major Paper, University of Ottawa

55 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2016

Gamal Atallah

University of Ottawa - Department of Economics

Date Written: 1995

Abstract

The paper reviews the literature on the effects of income taxes on married women's labour supply. Taxes introduce nonlinearities and nonconvexities in the budget set, creating many theoretical difficulties. Moreover, women's budget constraints have many particularities, which are often difficult to formalize. In order to deal with the endogeneity of the wage rate induced by taxes, the wage and hours functions are estimated jointly using an iterative estimation procedure, a method which relies on an explicit utility index. Labour supply theory predicts a negative effect of taxes on participation, but does not put any constraint upon the sign of the wage elasticity. Recent stimates do not give strong support to the labour supply theory. Empirical estimates lack robustness since they are subject to preferences, functional forms, simplifications on the data and on the budget set, and estimation techniques. Some recent theoretical developments are reviewed, and policy implications are discussed.

Keywords: Labor supply; income taxation; female labor supply

JEL Classification: J

Suggested Citation:

Atallah, Gamal, Income Taxes and Married Women's Labour Supply (1995). M.A. Major Paper, University of Ottawa, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2731342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2731342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies