Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Differences and Audit Risk: Evidence from the United States

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2015

43 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2016

Wendy Heltzer

DePaul University - College of Commerce

Sandra Waller Shelton

DePaul University, College of Commerce-School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 15, 2015

Abstract

Empirical research suggests that book-tax differences (BTDs) are related to greater earnings management. Separately, there is evidence that auditors consider earnings management in their risk-assessment process. Together, these studies suggest that BTDs may be associated with audit risk; this assertion is tested herein by conducting a survey of U.S. auditors. We find that auditors, on average, perceive large BTDs to be related to an increase in audit risk. Auditors perceive large positive BTDs to have a greater impact on audit risk than large negative BTDs, while auditors do not perceive large permanent BTDs to have a different impact on audit risk, vis-à-vis large temporary BTDs. Approximately one-third of surveyed auditors use BTDs to assess audit risk, and an auditor’s perception of the relationship between BTDs and audit risk is a significant determinant of an auditor’s decision to use BTDs to assess audit risk.

Keywords: Book-Tax Differences, Earnings Management, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heltzer, Wendy and Waller Shelton, Sandra, Book-Tax Differences and Audit Risk: Evidence from the United States (December 15, 2015). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
G ; Krishnan , G ____________ , Visvanathan
Do Auditors Price Audit Committee's Expertise? The Case of Accounting vs. NonAccounting Financial Experts
Does Big 6 Auditor Industry Expertise Constrain Earnings Management?', Accounting Horizons , volume 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Manry , T J Mock , J L Turner , J Meyers-Levy , L Mills , K Newberry ; Nelson , M , J A Elliot , R L Tarpley , J A ____________ , R L Elliot , Tarpley , J Phillips , M Pincus , S Rego ; Seidman , J
The Influence of Tax and Non-Tax Costs on Book-Tax Reporting Differences: Public and Private Firms
Gender Differences in Information Processing: A Selectivity Interpretation' in Cognitive and Affective Responses to Advertising , volume 22 Posted: 1989
St , K Pierre , J Anderson ; Winograd , B , J Gerson , B Berlin
An Analysis of the Factors Associated with Lawsuits against Public Accountants', The Accounting Review April
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,525
RANK
151,124
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies