Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Effective Tax Rate and Firm Size. Size as a Determinant Factor for Effective Tax Rate Change in the UK Wholesale and Retail Trade Sectors

Posted: 20 Feb 2016 Last revised: 21 Feb 2016

Epameinondas Katsikas

University of Kent

Jacob Lewis

Durham University Business School

Date Written: January 5, 2016

Abstract

The current research studies firm size and other determinants of effective tax rates for UK companies operating in the wholesale and retail trade sector. A panel of 784 companies from the BvD Company Independence Indicator (BvD’s FAME database) is studied over the six year period 2008-2013. The analysis shows that size, and profitability, were significant factors affecting the average effective tax rates of companies in the wholesale and retail trade sector.

This research examines the extent to which firm size, and other factors, have an influence on effective tax rates in the UK wholesale and retail trade sector. It will seek to explore the potential explanations as to why these factors would have an impact on effective tax rates more generally, and in the particular sector studied. It also argues that some of the factors studied are significant in the determination of effective tax rates in UK wholesale and retail trade companies and other determinants less/not so.

Many business decisions are affected by taxation, it is therefore useful to have a measure of taxation that is more meaningful to specific companies than simply the legislative or statutory tax rate (STR). This is due to the STR not taking account of certain factors such as allowances, deductions and timing differences (Moes, 1999). Effective tax rates allow us to take account of some of these factors, and allow better comparisons between companies and judgements about tax systems more generally. They also allow us to look at the fairness or the distortedness of the tax system in how different factors have an influence on the amount of tax paid by a company.

A measure of effective tax rate is needed in this study in order to study the differences in the taxes paid between the companies in the study. For this study, the measure of effective tax rate is given by corporation tax divided by pre-tax profit.

The aim of this study is to determine if firm size (along with other relevant variables) is a differentiating factor in terms of corporate effective tax rate of UK wholesale and retail trade sector companies over the six year period 2008-2013. There have been few if any multivariate studies examining the relationship of effective tax rates with multiple determinants within the UK. This dissertation therefore aims to address this deficiency.

Using annual financial reporting data from the FAME database this research will propose to model the relationship between effective tax rates and determinants thought to affect it. The wholesale and retail sector was chosen because this was the sector with the most data available and is a sector in which the effective tax rate is not influenced by financial instruments as is the case with the financial services sector (Fernández-Rodríguez & Martínez-Arias, 2014). The particular model that has been chosen is one that enables the discovery of non-linear effects which has not previously been done for the UK. Annual financial reports have been used as these are readily available and comparable with other studies using similar data.

Keywords: tax rate, size, retail, wholesale

Suggested Citation:

Katsikas, Epameinondas and Lewis, Jacob, The Relationship between Effective Tax Rate and Firm Size. Size as a Determinant Factor for Effective Tax Rate Change in the UK Wholesale and Retail Trade Sectors (January 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2734146
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies