Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Community Obligations in International Taxation

28 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Tsilly Dagan

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 23, 2016

Abstract

This paper describes the multilateral efforts regarding four key concerns of the international community: prevention of double taxation, fighting "harmful tax competition," sharing of information, and the "gaps and frictions" between the tax systems of various countries noted by the recent BEPS report. It then asks what, in fact, constitutes the community’s interest in the international tax area, arguing that where tax policy is concerned, there is no clear "textbook answer" regarding the best way to tax internationally.

The paper criticizes two proxies which are often implicitly endorsed in order to evaluate international tax policy: cooperation among states, and the prevention of transaction costs and market failures. It argues that cooperation, contrary to conventional wisdom, is neither a goal in itself, nor is it a good enough proxy for the collective good. Cooperation should be supported only when it genuinely promotes the interest of the community as a whole, which is not necessarily the case in the four initiatives examined. As for transaction costs and market failures, although their elimination indisputably seems to be a community interest that should be pursued, correcting only some of them may raise a second best problem.

Suggested Citation:

Dagan, Tsilly, Community Obligations in International Taxation (February 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
İtibar Aydemir-uslu
Kontrol Edilen Yabancı Kurum Kurallarının Güçlendirilmesi: Beps ve Atad Projelerindeki ve Türk Mevzuatındaki Düzenlemeler
Marmara Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Hukuk Araştırmaları Dergisi , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 1389 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Jeroen Lammers , Tarcísio Diniz Magalhães
Breaking the Double Tax Paradigm
Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 23-05 · 53 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 229
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,172
RANK
308,936
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bar-Ilan University Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies