Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Rates and Regional Integration. Evidence from the Transition Countries

Journal of Economic Integration, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2017

Posted: 28 Feb 2016 Last revised: 9 Mar 2017

Aleksandra Klofat

University of Witten/Herdecke, Students

Date Written: May 3, 2016

Abstract

Corporate tax rates in the industrialized countries have been decreasing for many years. This decline has been attributed by many scholars to tax competition. In this context, however, less attention has been paid to the relation between regional economic integration and the development of the tax rates. This paper covers this issue concentrating on two integration initiatives in Europe and Eurasia: the European Union and the Eurasian Customs Union/Eurasian Economic Union. I find evidence that the declining corporate tax rates are to various degrees driven by the progressing regional integration within both the EU and the EEU. This paper also shows that the regional integration within the Eurasian Economic Union is, despite significant skepticism expressed from various sides, working in practice.

Keywords: Tax Competition, Regional Integration, Eurasian Economic Union, Corporate Tax Rates, Transition Countries

JEL Classification: H2, H25, F15

Suggested Citation:

Klofat, Aleksandra, Corporate Tax Rates and Regional Integration. Evidence from the Transition Countries (May 3, 2016). Journal of Economic Integration, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2737391
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies