Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Countering Tax Avoidance at the EU Level after 'Luxleaks'. A History of Tax Rulings, Transparency and BEPS: Base Erosion Profit Shifting or Bending European Prospective Solutions?

Diritto e Pratica Tributaria Internazionale, Vol. XII, n. 4, 2015

44 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016 Last revised: 28 Feb 2016

Carlo Biz

College of Europe, Bruges; European Parliament

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

The journalistic scandal that reached the headlines with the iconoclastic expression “LuxLeaks” has raised an EU wide debate about national tax administrations’ advance ruling practices and it calls for a need to establish the acceptable boundaries between fair and harmful tax competition in the interplay between national systems of corporate income taxation. The current work is therefore deeply focused on procedural tax law issues: Advance tax ruling practices, country-by-country reporting and automatic exchange of information between tax authorities are the three cornerstones in the development of the analysis. First of all, the stage will be set through a description of the background that has lead to the current attempts to fight against aggressive tax avoidance. From the definition of what advance tax rulings and advance pricing arrangements are, the analysis will then shift towards the means through which the EU has dealt with these practices so far. Accordingly, an overview of the work steered by the Code of Conduct on Business Taxation and of the Commission’s action under EU State aid law will be conducted. A final insight on transfer pricing issues and the Court of Justice’s assessment of the so-called “arm’s length principle” will be granted. Considering the lack of transparency as the main problem related to procedural secretive practices such as tax rulings, the possible forthcoming solutions supported at supranational and at international level will be scrutinized. On one hand, the OECD works in the framework of the BEPS Project on the development of an instrument such as the “Country-by-Country Reporting”, which asks taxpayers to actively enhance transparency. On the other hand, the EU is focusing on administrative cooperation and automatic exchange of information, requiring national tax authorities to carry the burden of ensuring transparency in tax rulings matters. In how far this push from different angles, although apparently collective and solid, could actually lead to a concrete and fair use of transparency in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and harmful tax competition is a question that remains on the table. However it will be, it is of crucial importance that all legitimate interests at stake are borne in mind in a virtuous process of cross-fertilization between the concerned actors.

Keywords: International law, EU law, EU Tax law, Tax law, Administrative law, Tax avoidance, Base Erosion Profit Shifting, Tax transparency, Tax ruling, Tax avoidance, OECD, Automatic exchange of information, Administrative Cooperation, BEPS, OECD, LuxLeaks, EU Taxation

JEL Classification: K34, K33, K00, K23, E62, H71, H2, H21, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Biz, Carlo, Countering Tax Avoidance at the EU Level after 'Luxleaks'. A History of Tax Rulings, Transparency and BEPS: Base Erosion Profit Shifting or Bending European Prospective Solutions? (February 1, 2016). Diritto e Pratica Tributaria Internazionale, Vol. XII, n. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,988
RANK
95,379
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies