Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Frameworks for Evaluating Policy Approaches to Address the Competitiveness Concerns of Mitigating Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Resources for the Future Discussion Paper 16-06

30 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2016

Joseph E. Aldy

Harvard Kennedy School; National Bureau of Economic Research; Resources for the Future; Harvard University - Harvard Kennedy School (HKS)

Date Written: February 17, 2016

Abstract

Domestic carbon pricing policies may impose adverse competitiveness risks on energy-intensive firms and industries competing with foreign firms that may bear a lower or zero price on carbon. The risks of competitiveness effects include adverse economic outcomes — reduced production, lower employment, and higher net imports — and adverse environmental outcomes, with the shifting of emissions-intensive activities to unregulated foreign markets. Each can undermine political support for carbon pricing. Competitiveness policies, such as border tax adjustments, output-based tax credits, and related policies, also carry potential risks. They may result in less favorable distributional outcomes, undermine cost-effectiveness and economic efficiency, and raise risks in international trade and multilateral climate negotiations. This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical research on competitiveness risks, as well as the risks posed by competitiveness policies, and presents two alternative frameworks through which policymakers can weigh these various risks when evaluating policy options for addressing potential competitiveness effects as a part of a domestic carbon pricing regime.

Keywords: border tax, tariffs, leakage, competitiveness, political economy

JEL Classification: F13, H23, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Aldy, Joseph E., Frameworks for Evaluating Policy Approaches to Address the Competitiveness Concerns of Mitigating Greenhouse Gas Emissions (February 17, 2016). Resources for the Future Discussion Paper 16-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2738759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2738759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
John Agan , Wesley Look , Joseph E Aldy , Gilbert E Metcalf
Evaluating Policy Design Options of a Carbon Border Tax Adjustment. Working paper Posted: 2015
Joseph E Aldy
The Crucial Role of Policy Surveillance in International Climate Policy
Climate Change, Trade, and Competitiveness: Is a Collision Inevitable?, edited by Lael Brainard and Isaac Sorkin , volume 91 , p. 279 - 92 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Joseph E Aldy , William A Pizer
The Competitiveness Impacts of Climate Change Mitigation Policies. Prepared for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change
Does Regulation Kill Jobs Posted: 2009-05
Christopher Carrigan
The Competitiveness Impacts of Climate Change Mitigation Policies
Journal of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 565 - 95 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,914
RANK
394,952
6 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies