Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Higher Corporate Taxes Reduce Wages? Micro Evidence from Germany

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-003

80 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2016

Clemens Fuest

ifo Institute – Leibniz Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich; Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich; Center for Economic Studies (CES)

Andreas Peichl

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Mannheim - School of Economics (VWL); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; University of Essex - Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER)

Sebastian Siegloch

University of Mannheim - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research - Corporate Taxation and Public Finance Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); University of Cologne - Cologne Centre for Public Economics (CPE)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2015

Abstract

This paper estimates the incidence of corporate taxes on wages using a 20-year panel of German municipalities. Administrative linked employer-employee data allows estimating heterogeneous worker and firm effects. We set up a general theoretical framework showing that corporate taxes can have a negative effect on wages in various labor market models. Using an event study design, we test the predictions of the theory. Our results indicate that workers bear about 40% of the total tax burden. Empirically, we confirm the importance of both labor market institutions and profit shifting possibilities for the incidence of corporate taxes on wages.

Keywords: business tax, wage incidence, administrative data, local taxation

JEL Classification: H2, H7, J3

Suggested Citation:

Fuest, Clemens and Peichl, Andreas and Siegloch, Sebastian, Do Higher Corporate Taxes Reduce Wages? Micro Evidence from Germany (December 2015). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2739611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
D Acemoglu , R Shimer
Efficient Unemployment Insurance
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 5 , p. 893 - 928 Posted: 1999
Crossref
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The Fair Wage-Effort Hypothesis and Unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Crossref
H Alda , S Bender , H Gartner
European Data Watch: The Linked Employer-Employee Dataset Created from the IAB Establishment Panel and the Process-Produced data of the IAB (LIAB)
Schmollers Jahrbuch: Journal of Applied Social Science Studies , volume 125 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 336 Posted: 2005
M Amiti , D R Davis
Trade, Firms, and Wages: Theory and Evidence
Review of Economic Studies , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
654
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,288
RANK
54,933
69 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies