Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Financial Constraints: Evidence from Linguistic Cues

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 4, 2015

Posted: 3 Mar 2016

Kelvin Law

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Using a new measure of financial constraints based on firms’ qualitative disclosures, we find that financially constrained firms — firms that use more negative words in their annual reports — pursue more aggressive tax planning strategies as evidenced by: (1) higher current and future unrecognized tax benefits, (2) lower short- and long-run current and future effective tax rates, (3) increase in tax haven usage for their material operations, and (4) higher proposed audit adjustments from the Internal Revenue Service. We exploit the unexpected closures of local banks as exogenous liquidity shocks to show that firms’ external financial constraints affect their tax avoidance strategies. Overall, the linguistic cues in firms’ qualitative disclosures provide incremental information beyond traditional accounting variables or commonly used effective tax rates to reveal and predict tax aggressiveness, both contemporaneously and in the future.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Unrecognized Tax Reserve, Negative Words, Disclosure

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Law, Kelvin and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F., Taxes and Financial Constraints: Evidence from Linguistic Cues (September 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies