Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minimum Global Effective Corporate Tax Rate as General Anti-Avoidance Rule

8 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 6 (2017)

51 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016 Last revised: 4 Dec 2017

Rifat Azam

Reichman University - Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliyah - Harry Radziner School of Law

Date Written: February 16, 2016

Abstract

This article handles the timely and urgent challenge of international corporate tax avoidance that fills the headlines of leading newspapers, monopolizes political debates between presidential candidates and influences the life of every American who is losing more than 100 Billion U.S. dollars in tax revenues annually, while demanding fair taxation of citizens and multinationals. I call upon Congress to enact a new Internal Revenue Code provision that requires a minimum global effective corporate tax rate. According to my proposal, if the global effective corporate tax rate (of any U.S. multinational and its controlled foreign corporations) falls below 15%, the U.S. Corporation will be required to close the gap and pay the Internal Revenue Service up to the 15% minimum tax on its global profits as an interim liability. Additionally, I propose the enactment of an "exit tax" to limit corporate inversions and, finally, advocate for the strengthening of international norms through bilateral treaty modifications and international cooperation. I argue that this innovative proposal offers a comprehensive, distinct and justified tax reform package that will successfully and efficiently address the challenge of international corporate tax avoidance.

This article makes three significant contributions: First, it offers a holistic approach to international tax reform that looks at the whole picture of corporate tax avoidance instead of offering rules that address each strategy of tax avoidance individually – as is common in the current discourse; Second, my argument references and utilizes the extensive literature available that addresses the issue of combating tax avoidance in domestic transactions as a foundation from which to find solutions for tax avoidance in cross border transactions. Therefore, my proposal works within the current framework, rather than starting anew or ignoring the experience gained from dealing with domestic tax avoidance when addressing the issue of international tax avoidance, but also brings innovative and substantial change that is politically feasible as proven by President Barack Obama's proposal of minimum taxation which has some similarities to my proposal. Third, my proposal calls for the U.S. to take on an international leadership role in the area of international tax reform and emphasizes the significance of connecting the U.S. debate with the current trend of international reform as reflected in the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) final reports (published Oct. 5th 2015).

When facing the challenge of curtailing international corporate tax avoidance, our fundamental social contract is at stake. Our responsibility, as citizens, to preserve and protect our democracy, society and economy is calling us to fight for this cause. It is the responsibility of the United States as a world leader and economic power, to enhance and advocate for effective and efficient reform of the international tax regime, so that the global community will be better equipped to face the challenges of a 21st century economy. This is our new fiscal revolution.

Keywords: Multinationals, international taxation, tax avoidance, BEPS, tax reform, tax justice, minimum taxation, corporate taxation, effective corporate tax rate

Suggested Citation:

Azam, Rifat, Minimum Global Effective Corporate Tax Rate as General Anti-Avoidance Rule (February 16, 2016). 8 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 6 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2742126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
167 References
U S The
Model Income Tax Convention and Model Technical Explanation Posted: 2015-11-23
See Reuven Avi-Yonah
International Tax as International Law Posted: 2004
Crossref
Reuven Avi-Yonah See , International Tax , International , Law
AN ANALYSIS OF THE INTERNATIONAL TAX REGIME Posted: 2007
Reuven Avi-Yonah , Diane Ring , U S Brauner , International , Taxation
Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
RANK
203,526
1 Citations
167 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies