Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes? BEPs, Transfer Pricing for Intangibles, and CCAS

Global Transfer Pricing Conference - WU - Proceedings, 2016, Forthcoming

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 16-14

32 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2016 Last revised: 7 May 2016

Yariv Brauner

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: March 8, 2016

Abstract

The article argues that the BEPS project has made only minimal progress in its work on the transfer pricing for intangibles, despite the prominence of the issue. More specifically, it achieved none but increased confusion and incoherence in the context of the specific rules for CCAs.

Keywords: BEPS, Transfer Pricing, Cost Sharing, Cost Contribution Arrangements, CCA, International tax, Intangibles

JEL Classification: K34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Brauner, Yariv, Changes? BEPs, Transfer Pricing for Intangibles, and CCAS (March 8, 2016). Global Transfer Pricing Conference - WU - Proceedings, 2016, Forthcoming, University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 16-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2744730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
878
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,332
RANK
62,650
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies