Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Tax Treaty Negotiation Outcomes: The Actionaid Tax Treaties Dataset

International Centre for Tax and Development working paper 47, Institute of Development Studies.

45 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Martin Hearson

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of International Relations

Date Written: February 21, 2016

Abstract

This paper introduces a new dataset that codes the content of 519 tax treaties signed by low- and lower-middle-income countries in Africa and Asia. Often called Double Taxation Agreements, bilateral tax treaties divide up the right to tax cross-border economic activity between their two signatories. When one of the signatories is a developing country that is predominantly a recipient of foreign investment, the effect of the tax treaty is to impose constraints on its ability to tax inward investors, ostensibly to encourage more investment.

The merits of tax treaties for developing countries have been challenged in critical legal literature for decades, and studies of whether or not they attract new investment into developing countries give contradictory and inconclusive results. These studies have rarely disaggregated the elements of tax treaties to determine which may be most pertinent to any investment-promoting effect. Meanwhile, as developing countries continue to negotiate, renegotiate, review and terminate tax treaties, comparative data on negotiating histories and outcomes is not easily obtained.

The new dataset fills both these gaps. Using it, this paper demonstrates how tax treaties are changing over time. The restrictions they impose on the rate of withholding tax developing countries can levy on cross-border payments have intensified since 1970. In contrast, the permanent establishment threshold, which specifies when a foreign company’s profits become taxable in a developing country, has been falling, giving developing countries more opportunity to tax foreign investors. The picture with respect to capital gains tax and other provisions is mixed. As a group, OECD countries appear to be moving towards treaties with developing countries that impose more restrictions on the latter’s taxing rights, while non-OECD countries appear to be allowing developing countries to retain more taxing rights than in the past. These overall trends, however, mask some surprising differences between the positions of individual industrialised and emerging economies. These findings pose more questions than they answer, and it is hoped that this paper and the dataset it accompanies will stimulate new research on tax treaties.

Keywords: capital gains tax, corporation tax, double taxation agreement, foreign direct investment, international taxation, sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, tax treaty, withholding tax

JEL Classification: F53, F63, H25, K33, K34, N47, O23

Suggested Citation:

Hearson, Martin, Measuring Tax Treaty Negotiation Outcomes: The Actionaid Tax Treaties Dataset (February 21, 2016). International Centre for Tax and Development working paper 47, Institute of Development Studies., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2744547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
P Aukonobera
Uganda
The impact of the OECD and UN model conventions on bilateral tax treaties Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Avi-Yonah
Double Tax Treaties: An Introduction
The Effect of Treaties on Foreign Direct Investment Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Avi-Yonah
International Tax as International Law Posted: 2007
C Azémar , R Desbordes , J Mucchielli
Do tax sparing agreements contribute to the attraction of FDI in developing countries?
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 543 - 562 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Leyla Ates , Moran Harari , Markus Meinzer
Taxation, International Cooperation and the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda
, volume 19 , p. 195 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Daniel Haberly , Dariusz Wójcik
Sticky Power
Posted: 2022
Crossref
Hema Soondram , Martin Samy , Bhavish Jugurnath
The social welfare impact of double tax treaties in Sub Saharan Africa
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 141 Posted: 2022
Crossref
H.B. Çifci , R, Ramos Obando
Enhancing Tax Treaty Negotiations through the Lens of Representation
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 79 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,050
RANK
219,016
11 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies