Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovations in International Accounting and Taxation System in Global Arena; Challenges Ahead

INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MANAGEMENT (IJM), 5(2), 69-74, 2014

6 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Rathi N S

Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University

Abusef Emhemad Omar

Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University

Date Written: February 3, 2014

Abstract

The concept of international accounting standards and taxation system is main area of discussion during this paper. In global arena, now days the use of international accounting standards and its implementation in different industries for taxation system is growing and hence this imposes the many challenges. The international standard initially introduced during the year 1960’s, however it’s adopted in current business environment as well as economy. Different innovations in international accounting as well as taxation system worldwide are addressed by different countries governments and policymakers. The primary reviews suggested that lenders, investors, as well as different industries prefer to use such international accounting standards and taxation system in order to deliver the best financial reporting. The aim of this research article is to present the various innovations in the international accounting and taxation system over the global arena, also the different future challenges in this area.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, Taxation System, Global Arena, Challenges, Financial Reporting & Capital Markets

Suggested Citation:

N S, Rathi and Emhemad Omar, Abusef, Innovations in International Accounting and Taxation System in Global Arena; Challenges Ahead (February 3, 2014). INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MANAGEMENT (IJM), 5(2), 69-74, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Doupnik , Hoyle , Schafer
Advanced Accounting Posted: 2007
R D Gastil
Freedom in the World-Political Rights and Civil Liberties Posted: 1978
J H Dunning
Multinational Enterprises and the Global Economy Posted: 1992
Doupnik , S Salter
External environment, culture, and accounting practice; a preliminary test of a general model of international accounting development
International Journal of Accounting , volume 30 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
RANK
677,757
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies