Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Away M&A: The Effect of Corporate Capital Gains Taxes on Acquisition Activity

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5738

27 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Lars P. Feld

Walter Eucken Institute; University of Freiburg - College of Economics and Behavioral Sciences; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Martin Ruf

University of Tübingen - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Ulrich Schreiber

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Maximilian Todtenhaupt

Leibniz University Hannover; Norwegian School of Economics (NHH)

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 26, 2016

Abstract

Taxing capital gains is an important obstacle to the efficient allocation of resources because it imposes a transaction cost on the vendor which locks in appreciated assets by raising the vendor’s reservation price in prospective transactions. For M&As, this effect has been intensively studied with regard to shareholder taxation, whereas empirical evidence on the effect of capital gains taxes paid by corporations is scarce. This paper analyzes how corporate level taxation of capital gains affects inter-corporate M&As. Studying several substantial tax reforms in a panel of 30 countries for the period of 2002-2013, we identify a significant lock-in effect. Results from estimating a Poisson pseudo-maximumlikelihood (PPML) model suggest that a one percentage point decrease in the corporate capital gains tax rate would raise both the number and the total deal value of acquisitions by about 1.1% per year. We use this result to estimate an efficiency loss resulting from corporate capital gains taxation of 3.06 bn USD per year in the United States.

Keywords: corporate taxation, M&A, capital gains tax, lock-in effect

JEL Classification: H250, G340

Suggested Citation:

Feld, Lars P. and Ruf, Martin and Schreiber, Ulrich and Todtenhaupt, Maximilian and Voget, Johannes, Taxing Away M&A: The Effect of Corporate Capital Gains Taxes on Acquisition Activity (January 26, 2016). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5738, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2744534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Benjamin C Ayers , Craig E Lefanowicz , Robinson , R John
Shareholder taxes in acquisition premiums: The effect of capital gains taxation
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 2783 - 2801 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Benjamin C Ayers , Craig E Lefanowicz , Robinson , R John
The effect of shareholder-level capital gains taxes on acquisition structure
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 859 - 887 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Benjamin C Ayers , Craig E Lefanowicz , Robinson , R John
Capital gains taxes and acquisition activity: evidence of the lock-in effect
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 315 - 344 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Johannes Becker , Clemens Fuest
Source versus residence based taxation with international mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 28 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,242
RANK
132,934
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies