Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unilateral Responses to Tax Treaty Abuse: A Functional Approach

Brooklyn Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, 2016 (Forthcoming)

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-09

23 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2016 Last revised: 14 Feb 2017

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 7, 2016

Abstract

Recent years have seen a dramatic increase in the attention given to abusive tax schemes that take advantage of bilateral tax treaties. The ensuing discourse tends to view potential responses to treaty abuses as a hierarchical set of options, gradually escalating, in which treaty termination is a last resort option. This article argues that the hierarchical view of unilateral responses to treaty abuse is misguided. Unilateral responses to treaty-based abuse are not hierarchically ordered. Rather, the approach to treaty abuse is (and should be) functional, adopting specific types of unilateral responses based on the type of treaty abuse at issue.

This article develops a taxonomy of tax-treaty abuses based on two factors: a geographical breadth of abuse, and a substantive breadth of abuse. The geographical breadth of abuse refers to whether there is only one or a few treaties being abused, or whether there are many treaties that are consistently abused. The second factor – namely, the substantive breath of abuse – considers whether there are only one or two provisions consistently being abused, or whether the treaty as a whole is used as an instrument of abuse. Based on the geographical and substantive breadth of abuse, different unilateral responses are called for. For example, treaty termination should not be viewed as a “last resort” measure. Sometimes it is simply a first-best (if not the only) solution. Specifically, if the abuse is geographically narrow (meaning, only one treaty is abused), but substantively broad (meaning, the treaty as a whole is primarily used for abusive purposes), a treaty should be terminated. In such context, termination is the most cost-effective way to solve the abuse problem. On the other hand, termination might be an irrelevant response in other instances, for example, when multiple treaties are narrowly abused. In such cases, a treaty override is the correct policy response.

Keywords: International Taxation, Corporate Taxation, Tax Jurisdiction, Comparative Taxation, Tax Treaties, Tax Avoidance, BEPS

JEL Classification: H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Unilateral Responses to Tax Treaty Abuse: A Functional Approach (March 7, 2016). Brooklyn Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, 2016 (Forthcoming), UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
CCH EXPLANATIONS
Crossref
U S Tax , Reporter
Aruban Income Tax Treaty: Treaty background
U S Tax , Reporter
Annotations: Termination 67 Gerth, supra note 30 , volume 458
R David
Francis US Tries to Stem Flow of US Tax Revenue through Antilles 'Haven', Christian Science Monitor Posted: 1984-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
RANK
238,435
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies