Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Multilateral Tax Instrument: How to Avoid a Stalemate on Distributional Issues?

British Tax Review, 2016

24 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2016 Last revised: 12 Mar 2016

Dirk Broekhuijsen

Leiden University - Leiden Law School

Henk Vording

Leiden University - Leiden Law School; Peking University - Peking University Law School

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

Action 15 of the OECD/G-20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project is to “develop a multilateral instrument designed to provide an innovative approach to international tax matters”. The authors turn to two areas of academic thought to clarify the choices faced by states when engaging in either bilateral or multilateral tax treaties. One is the field of international relations, and especially the “neoliberal” approach based on the economic self-interest of states. The other is political philosophy, and especially Brennan and Buchanan’s “veil of uncertainty”. The authors argue that, as the economic gains of combating BEPS are uncertain, multilateral agreement will be easier to achieve on matters of design and concept, than on specific rules which have an uncertain distributive impact on states’ economies. The recommendations of the BEPS Final Report are, therefore, useful to the extent that they provide a starting point for reconsidering the architecture of international taxation, that is, for answering the question: “what would we want the taxation of multinational enterprise (MNE) profits to look like in 2025?”

Keywords: international taxation, BEPS, multilateralism, double tax treaties

Suggested Citation:

Broekhuijsen, Dirk and Vording, Henk, The Multilateral Tax Instrument: How to Avoid a Stalemate on Distributional Issues? (March 1, 2016). British Tax Review, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Explanatory Oecd , Statement
OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project Posted: 2015-01-18
Crossref
Limiting Base Erosion Involving Interest Deductions, above fn , volume 56 , p. 79 - 80
U N Economic , Council
Further Progress in Strengthening the Work of the Committee of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters
Report of the Secretary-General , volume 67 Posted: 2013-01-18
A synthesis: uncertainty on distributional issues
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,563
RANK
123,107
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies