Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Demographic Study of Russian Attitudes Toward Tax Evasion

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2016

71 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2016

Galina Preobragenskaya

Abu Dhabi University - Department of Accounting

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 9, 2016

Abstract

A number of studies have examined the relationship between tax collection and various demographic variables. However, until recently most of those studies have involved a United States sample population. The Internal Revenue Service provides demographic data for researchers on a regular basis. The present study goes beyond those studies in several important ways. For one, it uses data on Russia taken from the World Values database. Not much work has been done on the post-communist Russian tax or public finance system. Thus, the present study expands on the very limited research done on Russian public finance.

This study expands on existing literature in at least two other ways as well. For one, it examines how various demographics interact with attitudes toward tax evasion. Secondly, we examine several demographic variables that were not examined in prior studies. The sample had 2,382 usable responses from a wide range of the Russian population.

One of the questions in the World Values database asked whether it would be justifiable to cheat on taxes if it were possible to do so. Respondents were asked to choose a number from 1 to 10 to indicate the extent of their support for tax evasion. This study examines those responses, both overall and through the prism of 6 demographic variables. A trend analysis is also done to determine whether Russian attitudes regarding tax evasion have changed in recent years. A comparison is made with other ethical issues to determine the relative seriousness of tax evasion.

This study found some interesting relationships between attitude toward tax evasion and several demographic variables. Although there is strong opposition to tax evasion in general, the extent of opposition has fluctuated over time. Women were significantly more opposed to tax evasion than were men; older people were significantly more opposed to tax evasion than were younger people; Widows and married individuals were more opposed to tax evasion than were other groups, and single individuals were least opposed. Opposition to tax evasion was less among the higher educated and social classes; opposition to tax evasion fluctuated by region, with the least opposition in Moscow. Tax evasion was not considered very serious in Russia compared to some other acts. The article concludes with a bibliography listing more than 80 tax studies, including links to the studies.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, empirical study, demographic variables, gender, age, education level, marital status, social class, region, longitudinal study, Russia, bibliography

JEL Classification: H26,H24,A12,A13,D63,D73,E26,J1,J11,J12,J14,J16,K14,K34,K42,M41,O17,O52,O53,P2,P32,P37

Suggested Citation:

Preobragenskaya, Galina G. and McGee, Robert W., A Demographic Study of Russian Attitudes Toward Tax Evasion (March 9, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Robert W. McGee , Silvia López Paláu , Gustavo A. Yepes
Is Tax Evasion Ethical? An Empirical Study of Colombian Opinion
Pages: 18 Posted: 26 Mar 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee , Galina G. Preobragenskaya
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study of Opinion in Kazakhstan
Pages: 15 Posted: 5 Oct 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee , Bouchra Mzali
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study of French Emba Students
Pages: 16 Posted: 15 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
India Hyderabad
Load more
13 Citations
Robert W. McGee
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Summaries of 21 Studies
51 Pages · Posted: 13 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 437
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 2007-2022
124 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Taxation, Ethics & Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 1998-2022
76 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2023 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiqullah Pardisi
Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy: An Annotated Bibliography 2003-2022
142 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,365
RANK
206,880
13 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies