Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Political Uncertainty

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Mar 2016 Last revised: 21 Jun 2016

Laura Wellman

Pennsylvania State University; Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting; Penn State University

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether firms that establish political connections gain differential access to relevant information over legislative developments, thereby mitigating the negative consequences of uncertainty. I investigate this hypothesis in the context of firm-specific investment, where prior literature has documented a negative relation between investment and uncertainty. Consistent with my hypothesis, I find that political connections (partially) offset the negative effect of political uncertainty on investment, controlling for determinants of investment, general macroeconomic conditions, and industry and time-period fixed effects. My results do not appear to be driven by connected firms pursuing investments that are insensitive to political uncertainty (i.e., highly reversible projects). My second hypothesis predicts and finds that the benefits of targeting political contributions at policymakers with aligned policy preferences produces the greatest benefits for connected firms. Finally, to help rule out the possibility that a correlated omitted variable is driving my primary findings, I perform three additional sets of analyses. First, I identify a setting around a specific policy development designed to provide new investment incentives to firms. In this setting, I predict and find that reduced information asymmetry for connected firms results in delaying investment in anticipation of future lucrative tax incentives. Second, I perform a falsification test and document that political connections do not mitigate the effects of general economic uncertainty. Finally, I find that my results are not sensitive to including additional controls for the determinants of political participation. Relying on determinants of investment and political participation, I also construct a propensity score matched sample and continue to find support for my hypothesis within the matched sample.

Keywords: corporate investment; political uncertainty; political connections; political information

Suggested Citation:

Wellman, Laura, Mitigating Political Uncertainty (February 1, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2748259
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,732
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies