Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxation and Location of Intangible Assets: Patents vs. Trademarks

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-015

33 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2016

Olena Dudar

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Date Written: March 23, 2016

Abstract

Numerous empirical studies have analysed the influence of corporate taxation on the location of intangible assets within a company group. However, the previous literature has rather focused on studying the impact of taxation on patent location choices assuming that these assets represent the rest of intangibles as well. This paper complements previous studies by estimating and comparing the tax elasticities of two different types of intangibles – patents and trademarks. We employ data on European and US patent and trademark applications in the period of 1996-2012 and estimate a multinomial logit model that incorporates various observed and unobserved factors of the intangible’s location choice. According to our main findings, trademarks are more sensitive to changes in taxation as compared to patents. This implies that firms use trademarks more eagerly for tax planning purposes than patents.

Keywords: intangible assets; patent; trademark; tax planning; corporate taxation

JEL Classification: H25, F23, H26, H3

Suggested Citation:

Dudar, Olena and Voget, Johannes, Corporate Taxation and Location of Intangible Assets: Patents vs. Trademarks (March 23, 2016). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2753656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodeme , A Skonieczna , A Vezzani
Patent Boxes Design, Patents Location and Local R&D
European Commission Working Paper , issue 57 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T Böhm , T Karkinsky , B Knoll , N Riedel
Corporate Taxes and Strategic Patent Location within Multinational Firms
CESifo Area Conference on Public Sector Economics 04 Posted: 2015
J H Collins , D A Shackelford
Global Organizations and Taxes: An Analysis of the Dividend, Interest, Royalty, and Management Fee Payments between U.S. Multinationals Foreign Affiliates
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 151 - 173 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Dirk Crass
Which Firms Use Trademarks – And Why? Representative Firm-Level Evidence from Germany
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-118 Pages: 32 Posted: 10 Feb 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
2 Citations
Dominika Langenmayr , Franz Reiter
Trading Offshore: Evidence on Banks' Tax Avoidance
44 Pages · Posted: 13 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 218
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sebastian Beer , Ruud Mooij , Li Liu
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE TAX AVOIDANCE: A REVIEW OF THE CHANNELS, MAGNITUDES, AND BLIND SPOTS
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 660 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,796
RANK
198,930
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies