Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Processing Costs and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the SEC's XBRL Mandate

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 2, 106822

49 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 16 Mar 2021

Jeff Zeyun Chen

Texas Christian University

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Date Written: January 11, 2021

Abstract

The IRS uses information contained in financial statements as well as tax returns to detect tax avoidance behavior. We examine the impact on corporate tax avoidance behavior of reductions in the IRS’s information processing costs resulting from the mandatory adoption of XBRL for financial reporting. Motivated by the recent debate in the U.S. Congress over the cost-benefit of mandatory XBRL reporting for small firms, we pay particular attention to small firms, which inherently have relatively high information frictions. We find that the adoption of XBRL for financial reporting results in a significant decrease in tax avoidance. We further find that the negative relation between XBRL reporting and tax avoidance is less prominent for firms subject to more intense IRS monitoring in the pre-XBRL-reporting period. Overall, our results suggest that XBRL reporting reduces the cost of IRS monitoring in terms of information processing, which dampens managerial incentives to engage in tax avoidance behavior.

Keywords: XBRL reporting; tax avoidance; information processing costs; IRS monitoring; tax audit risk; tax accrual

JEL Classification: H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Jeff Zeyun and Hong, Hyun A. and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Ryou, Jiwoo, Information Processing Costs and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the SEC's XBRL Mandate (January 11, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 40, No. 2, 106822, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754427 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
C S Armstrong , J Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
J. Account. Econ , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
J. Political Econ , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E Blankespoor
The impact of information processing costs on firm disclosure choice: Evidence from the XBRL mandate
J. Account. Res , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 919 - 967 Posted: 2019
Crossref
E Blankespoor , B P Miller , H D White
Initial evidence on the market impact of the XBRL mandate
Rev. Account. Stud , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 1468 - 1503 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
577
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,685
RANK
108,566
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies