Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Taxes: International Evidence on the Proxy for Profitability Role of Tax Surprise

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 6 Nov 2018

Jon N. Kerr

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 24, 2016

Abstract

Despite evidence in the United States that tax surprise is incrementally value relevant, the literature has done little to examine those circumstances that enhance or diminish that value relevance, or broaden the investigation to settings beyond the United States. I examine whether tax enforcement has a bearing on the incremental value relevance of tax surprise for a broad cross-country sample of firms. I also extend the evidence on the incremental value relevance of tax surprise to the international setting. I report strong results that tax surprise has greater incremental value relevance when tax enforcement is high, with results suggesting that the value relevance of tax surprise is mostly contained within its interaction with tax enforcement. Overall, these findings highlight the importance of tax enforcement for tax surprise as a proxy for profitability and suggest that extant and future discussions should be broadened to include this important variable.

Keywords: Value Relevance, Tax Surprise, Tax Enforcement, International

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kerr, Jon N., The Value Relevance of Taxes: International Evidence on the Proxy for Profitability Role of Tax Surprise (March 24, 2016). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754346
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,802
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies