Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Choice Experiment on Taxes: Are Income and Consumption Taxes Equivalent?

ISER Discussion Paper No. 966

25 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2016

Hirofumi Kurokawa

School of Economics and Management

Tomoharu Mori

College of Comprehensive Psychology, Ritsumeikan University; Research Institute for Socionetwork Strategies, Kansai University

Fumio Ohtake

Osaka University - Center for Infectious Disease Education and Research

Date Written: April 6, 2016

Abstract

We test the equivalence of income and consumption taxes through a choice experiment. Under a given set of income and consumption parameters, subjects were asked to choose among an income tax of 20%, a consumption tax of 25% (which is an equivalent tax burden), a consumption tax of 22%, and a consumption tax of 20%. Our results showed that subjects prefer income tax to consumption tax when the nominal consumption tax rate is higher than the nominal income tax rate. However, subjects tend to prefer consumption tax to income tax when the nominal tax rates are identical. Our result, that subjects prefer income tax to consumption tax despite a higher tax burden, implies the consumption tax miscalculation bias. The consumption tax miscalculation bias is one where subjects miscalculate the amount of consumption tax as if it is declared by tax inclusive, as in the case of income tax, despite consumption tax being tax exclusive. If the income tax burden is equivalent to the consumption tax burden, subjects prefer income tax. This result implies that income and consumption taxes are not equivalent due to the consumption tax miscalculation bias.

Keywords: Tax equivalence, Income tax, Consumption tax, Misperception of tax, Behavioral and experimental economics

JEL Classification: H24, C91

Suggested Citation:

Kurokawa, Hirofumi and Mori, Tomoharu and Ohtake, Fumio, A Choice Experiment on Taxes: Are Income and Consumption Taxes Equivalent? (April 6, 2016). ISER Discussion Paper No. 966, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2755864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Abeler , S Jäger
Complex Tax Incentives. American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R A Braun , D H Joines
The Implications of a Graying Japan for Government Policy
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 57 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E P Bettinger , B T Long , P Oreopoulos , L Sanbonmatsu
The Role of Application Assistance and Information in College Decisions: Results from the H&R Block FAFSA Experiment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 127 , issue 3 , p. 1205 - 1242 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T Blumkin , B J Ruffle , Y Ganun
Are Income and Consumption Taxes Ever Really Equivalent? Evidence from a Real-Effort Experiment with Real Goods
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1200 - 1219 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
418,383
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies