Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timing of Tax Transparency

90 Southern California Law Review 449 (2017)

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-13

80 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2016 Last revised: 3 May 2017

Joshua D. Blank

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 30, 2016

Abstract

Fairness in the administration of the tax law is a subject of intense debate in the United States. As myriad headlines reveal, the Internal Revenue Service has been accused of failing to enforce the tax law equitably in its review of tax-exempt status applications by political organizations, international tax structures of multinational corporations, and estate tax returns of millionaires, among other areas. Many have argued that greater “tax transparency” would better empower the public to hold the IRS accountable and the IRS to defend itself against accusations of malfeasance. Mandatory public disclosure of taxpayers’ tax return information is often proposed as a way to achieve greater tax transparency. Yet, in addition to concerns regarding exposure of personal and proprietary information, broad public disclosure measures pose potential threats to the taxing authority’s ability to enforce the tax law.

Given the competing values of accountability and enforcement, what tax return information should be observable by the public? This Article considers the role of timing. The IRS continually engages in enforcement actions ex post—after taxpayers pursue transactions and claim tax positions—such as by conducting audits or negotiating settlements. But it also frequently engages in actions ex ante—before taxpayers pursue transactions and claim tax positions—by issuing advance tax rulings to, and entering into agreements with, specific taxpayers. While current law appears to require public disclosure of certain types of ex ante tax administration, many forms of ex ante tax administration remain concealed from public view. This Article argues that documents related to a specific taxpayer’s tax affairs that reflect ex ante tax administration should be publicly accessible as a means of accountability, but that documents that reflect ex post tax actions should remain private in order to preserve effective tax enforcement. Further, this Article proposes that the public should have access not only to ex ante tax administration actions where the taxing authority grants taxpayers’ requests, but also to those actions where the taxing authority denies such requests, even if it does so without issuing an official written determination, a concept it defines as “dual tax transparency.”

The Article then applies this analysis to several types of ex ante tax administration that are currently obscured by the curtain of tax privacy: withdrawn private letter ruling requests, adverse tax-exempt determination letters, and advance pricing agreements. It concludes by exploring approaches to improving the accountability of the IRS regarding its ex post tax enforcement other than public disclosure of tax return information.

Keywords: advance tax rulings, tax shelter, tax aggressiveness, shaming, tax compliance, publicity, tax enforcement, tax privacy, tax transparency

JEL Classification: H20, H23, H24, H25, H26, H29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Blank, Joshua D., The Timing of Tax Transparency (March 30, 2016). 90 Southern California Law Review 449 (2017), NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2756629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
See Jesse Drucker
Google 2.4% Rate Shows How $60 Billion Is Lost to Tax Loopholes
BLOOMBERG Posted: 2010-10-21
See Memorandum , Carl Levin , John Mccain
Senators, Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, to Members of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Posted: 2013-05-21
See David Kocieniewski , G E
's Strategies Let It Avoid Taxes Altogether
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2011-03-24
E G See , D Edward , Kleinbard
Through a Latte, Darkly: Starbucks's Stateless Income Planning , p. 139 - 1515 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
674
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,708
RANK
88,839
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies