Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Offshore Evasion and ‘Aggressive’ Tax Avoidance Arrangements: The HSBC Case

Financial Regulation International (Informa Law), 2016

22 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2016 Last revised: 4 Apr 2016

Iulia Nicolescu

University of Warwick - School of Law

Date Written: March 18, 2016

Abstract

This paper critically analyses the relationship between tax evasion and ‘aggressive’ tax avoidance with a view to arguing their equivalence from a moral perspective. This is supported by factual similarities in the offshore financial sector, notably their mutual employment of confidentiality-bound trusts and other special purpose vehicles (SPVs). Taking the HSBC case as an example, the research is prompted by the recent debate surrounding the ambiguity of tax avoiding practices of major international banks and MNEs. At international level, regulatory response has translated into the OECD’s Base Erosion Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project and the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) for automatic exchange of information (AEOI). In the UK, the introduction of a new ‘offshore tax evasion’ offence is currently being proposed by the HMRC. The paper first considers the taxonomy of tax avoidance, arguing the equivalence of ‘aggressive’ tax avoidance with evasion from a moral and regulatory perspective. The second section compares offshore evasion with aggressive tax avoidance arrangements and discusses the case of HSBC. The final section concludes with a consideration of the effectiveness of anti-evasion and avoidance measures.

Keywords: Offshore evasion, aggressive tax avoidance, taxation, SPVs, financial sector, confidentiality, banking secrecy, HSBC, Google, BEPS, CRS, AEOI

Suggested Citation:

Nicolescu, Iulia, The Relationship between Offshore Evasion and ‘Aggressive’ Tax Avoidance Arrangements: The HSBC Case (March 18, 2016). Financial Regulation International (Informa Law), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2757636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Finance Act , issue 1 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Van Brederode Above
Crossref
See Murphy , L Nagel , T
The Myth of Ownership , p. 98 - 99 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Picciotto
International Business Taxation, A Study in the Internationalisation of Business Regulation (Widenfeld and Nicolson Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,262
RANK
106,656
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies