Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Tax Changes and Quasi-Experimental Price Elasticities of U.S. Cigarette Demand: An Update

Journal of Economics and Finance, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 422-429

Posted: 6 Apr 2016

Badi H. Baltagi

Syracuse University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Syracuse University - Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs

Rajeev K. Goel

Illinois State University - Department of Economics

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

This paper uses 336 state tax changes across the U.S. spanning 42 years (1956–1997) to provide an updated look at the quasi-experimental price elasticities of cigarette demand. It also studies the sensitivity of these elasticity estimates to changes in the cigarette market over time as well as their sensitivity to border-effect purchases. Besides replicating earlier findings, the results show a downward trend in these elasticities over time and sensitivity to border effect purchases. Policy implications are discussed.

Suggested Citation:

Baltagi, Badi H. and Goel, Rajeev K., State Tax Changes and Quasi-Experimental Price Elasticities of U.S. Cigarette Demand: An Update (2004). Journal of Economics and Finance, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 422-429, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2758948
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies