Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cigarette Demand in Canada and the Us-Canadian Cigarette Smuggling

Applied Economics Letters, vol. 11, no. 9, pp. 537-540

Posted: 6 Apr 2016

Rajeev K. Goel

Illinois State University - Department of Economics

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

Using annual data from Canadian provinces, this paper studies the effects of a drastic reduction in Canadian cigarette taxes in 1994 on cross-border smuggling. The results show that the policy was successful in that the border prices seem to not have had a statistically significant impact on cigarette sales. The own price elasticity of cigarette demand in Canada is estimated to be around -0.7. The elasticity is slightly lower when the border-price effects are taken into account and is larger than the corresponding estimates for the USA, implying that dollar-for-dollar there might be greater opportunities for reducing smoking in Canada through higher taxes than the USA.

Suggested Citation:

Goel, Rajeev K., Cigarette Demand in Canada and the Us-Canadian Cigarette Smuggling (2004). Applied Economics Letters, vol. 11, no. 9, pp. 537-540, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2758980
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies