Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Withholding Tax Effects on the Investment Decision of Multinational Firms

29 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2016

Michael Riedle

University of Tübingen

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

Using a large international firm-level panel data set, we investigate the impact of corporate taxation on foreign direct investment. In this paper, we also theoretically and empirically analyse foreign corporate taxation. In particular, we examine non-resident withholding taxes. The impact of foreign country taxation is estimated to be sizable, as is consistent with the findings from the existing literature. Moreover, our results provide evidence which shows that withholding taxes have a remarkable additional effect on the investment decision. We find that a ten percentage point increase in the foreign corporate tax rate is associated with a 15.8% decrease in the affiliate’s fixed assets. Furthermore, we show that a ten percentage point increase in the withholding tax rate reduces the affiliate’s fixed assets by 4.4%.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Double Tax Treaties, Empirical Analysis, Foreign Direct Investment, Multinational Firms, Withholding Taxes

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Riedle, Michael, Withholding Tax Effects on the Investment Decision of Multinational Firms (March 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2759293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,838
RANK
146,434
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies