Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Vanguard Case Reconsidered

Tax Notes, Vol. 150, p. 1466, March 21, 2016

10 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2016

Daniel J. Hemel

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 21, 2016

Abstract

Recent news reports have suggested that the Vanguard Group family of mutual funds may need to quadruple investors’ fees to cover corporate income tax liabilities. Professor Reuven Avi-Yonah has estimated that Vanguard’s federal tax liability for the 2007-2014 period is roughly $34.6 billion. For the more than 20 million investors in Vanguard funds, the potential financial implications of the tax dispute are significant: Vanguard would presumably pass its tax costs along to customers, leading to higher expense ratios and lower returns. For observers of the IRS, the issue is an important one as well: A $34.6 billion recovery from Vanguard would be multiples more than what the IRS has ever recouped from a taxpayer in a transfer pricing case.

Yet as this article argues, fears that Vanguard fees might quadruple for tax-related reasons are wildly overblown. Moreover, even if one accepts Avi-Yonah’s major premise that Vanguard’s investment management company should pay corporate income tax on transactions with individual funds as if those transactions occurred at an arm’s-length price, Avi-Yonah’s estimate of Vanguard’s potential tax liability is implausibly high. And if the IRS did seek to recoup back taxes and penalties from Vanguard, the mutual fund family might be able to restructure itself to eliminate corporate income tax liability in future years.

None of this is to deny that the IRS may be able to recover a significant sum if it pursues a case against Vanguard and persuades a court to adopt Avi-Yonah’s major premise. Using the best available data, and assuming that an arm’s-length standard should apply, this article estimates that Vanguard’s past due taxes for the 2007-2014 period are in the range of $3.7 billion to $6.5 billion. The imposition of penalties potentially increases those figures by up to 40 percent, but even then, the consequences for Vanguard — and its investors — would not be catastrophic. This article explains the assumptions underlying Avi-Yonah’s calculation and recomputes Vanguard’s federal tax liability using what I argue is a more realistic set of assumptions. The article then evaluates Vanguard’s ability to reduce its tax liabilities in the future through a change in organizational structure. Finally, the article discusses some of the factors that the IRS should consider in deciding whether to seek recovery from Vanguard.

Keywords: tax, transfer pricing, mutual funds, Vanguard

JEL Classification: G2, H2, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemel, Daniel J., The Vanguard Case Reconsidered (March 21, 2016). Tax Notes, Vol. 150, p. 1466, March 21, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
more Tax Notes content, please visit www.taxnotes.com
All rights reserved. Tax Analysts does not claim copyright in any public domain or third party content
Tax Analysts Posted: 2016
$964
Crossref
VGI's estimated revenues $2,310
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,150
RANK
333,158
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies