Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity and Reporting Behavior – A Quasi-Experiment

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-008

48 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2016

Maria Evers

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Ina Meier

University of Mannheim

Katharina Finke

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: January 1, 2016

Abstract

We examine how a comprehensive change in book-tax conformity affects firms' reporting behavior. To this end, we exploit a Reform Act as a quasi-natural experiment which implied a decrease in book-tax conformity in Germany in 2010. In particular, this reform allows firms to exercise tax accounting options independently from financial accounting. Our study builds on a unique dataset of linked individual financial statements and actual tax return data. It covers roughly 150 incorporated firms for the years 2008 to 2012. Exploiting the exceptional change in conformity, we contribute to the ongoing debate on the impact of booktax conformity. Our results show that profitable companies, which have a clear tax sheltering incentive, actually use the newly introduced reporting leeway to manage taxable income downwards. This is especially attributable to companies exploiting favorable tax depreciation rules. Moreover, we find larger opportunistic tax reporting responses for small companies with less complex and predominantly domestic group structures. In addition, we observe that a decrease in book-tax conformity induces a decrease in the general persistence of taxable income, but at the same time gives rise to higher financial earnings persistence. This corroborates our finding of increased tax sheltering activity in post reform years.

Keywords: book-tax conformity; book-tax differences; tax sheltering; earnings persistence

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Evers, Maria and Meier, Ina and Finke, Katharina, Book-Tax Conformity and Reporting Behavior – A Quasi-Experiment (January 1, 2016). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2760323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
C Watrin , N Ebert , M Thomsen
Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings Management: Insights from European One-and Two-Book System
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , p. 55 - 89 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R L Watts , J L Zimmermann
Toward a positive theory of determination of accounting standards, The Accounting Review , p. 112 - 134 Posted: 1978
C Whitaker
Bridging the Book-Tax Accounting Gap
The Yale Law Journal , p. 680 - 726 Posted: 2005
R J Wilson
An Examination of Corporate Tax Shelter Participants, The Accounting Review , p. 969 - 999 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,983
RANK
541,990
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies