Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Capital Gains Taxation and Acquisition Activity

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-007

64 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2016 Last revised: 11 Apr 2019

Lars P. Feld

Walter Eucken Institute; University of Freiburg - College of Economics and Behavioral Sciences; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Martin Ruf

University of Tübingen

Ulrich Schreiber

University of Mannheim - Department of Business Administration and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Maximilian Todtenhaupt

Leibniz University Hannover; Norwegian School of Economics (NHH)

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 11, 2019

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample of M&A deals around the world, we analyze the effect of corporate capital gains taxation on M&As involving corporate sellers (e.g. subsidiary sales). Capital gains taxation distorts the market for corporate control by imposing a cost on corporate sellers which leads to a lock-in effect that inhibits the completion of deals. We find that an increase in the corporate capital gains tax rate affects the location choice and reduces acquisition activity significantly. For the United States, this implies forgone acquisitions from corporate sellers at a volume of around $34.4 billion annually due to capital gains taxes.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, M&A, capital gains tax, lock-in effect

JEL Classification: H25, G34

Suggested Citation:

Feld, Lars P. and Ruf, Martin and Schreiber, Ulrich and Todtenhaupt, Maximilian and Voget, Johannes, Corporate Capital Gains Taxation and Acquisition Activity (April 11, 2019). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2760316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
Anup Agrawal , Jae , F Jerey , Gershon N Mandelker
The post-merger performance of acquiring rms: a reexamination of an anomaly
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 4 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Kenneth R Ahern
Bargaining power and industry dependence in mergers
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 103 , issue 3 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Kenneth R Ahern , Jarrad Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Gregor Andrade , Mitchell , Mark , Erik Staord
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,112
RANK
132,934
6 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies