Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Earned Income Tax Credit Proposal for Chile

42 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2016

Claudio A. Agostini

Universidad Adolfo Ibañez

Marcela C. Perticara

ILADES-Universidad Alberto Hurtado

Javiera Selman

University of Chile

Date Written: October 2014

Abstract

In recent decades, we have seen in Latin America an increase in the use of conditional cash transfer programs to fight poverty. Although these programs can be effective to improve the welfare of the poor in the short term and to guarantee a certain basic health care and education, they can also discourage employment, thus creating a poverty trap and a dependence on the social welfare system. In other regions of the world, the tax system has been used not only to redistribute income, but also to implement social policies. A good example is the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) in the United States, which offers to lower-income individuals a reimbursable credit conditioned on working. This policy has simultaneously increased employment, reduced inequality and reduced poverty particularly among single mothers. This paper estimates, through simulation, the effect that a system like the EITC would have in Chile. The results show that a tax credit could increase employment and at the same time reduce poverty and inequality. Additionally, a comparison of the results to a simulation of the Ethical Family Income Program allows concluding that the EITC is more effective in increasing the income of individuals below the poverty line and it has a lower transfer cost per family.

Keywords: EITC, poverty, inequality, Ethical Family Income, Chile

JEL Classification: H24, H53, I38

Suggested Citation:

Agostini, Claudio A. and Perticara, Marcela C. and Selman, Javiera, An Earned Income Tax Credit Proposal for Chile (October 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
C Acero , G Cabezas
Effects of the Ethical Family Income on Labor Participation, Income Distribution and Poverty Posted: 2011
G Betcherman , K Olivas Y , A Dar
Impacts of Active Labor Market Programs: New Evidence from Evaluations with Particular Attention to Developing and Transition Countries Posted: 2004
César Patricio Bouillon Buendia , Luis R. Tejerina
Do We Know What Works? A Systematic Review of Impact Evaluations of Social Programs in Latin America and the Caribbean
Pages: 144 Posted: 28 Jun 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
G Cabezas
Efecto del Programa Asignación Social sobre la oferta laboral femenina Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
636,031
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies