Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selected International Aspects of Fundamental Tax Reform Proposals

51 U. Miami L. Rev. 1029 (1997)

50 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2016

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

Victoria Summers

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Fiscal Affairs Department

Date Written: 1997

Abstract

Over the past several years, there have been a series of proposals to replace the U.S. income tax. The 1996 presidential primaries saw one major candidate, Steve Forbes, espouse the virtues of a flat tax. Another candidate, Senator Richard Lugar, favored a national retail sales tax. A year earlier, Senators Nunn and Domenici introduced their "Unlimited Savings Account" tax. Each of these proposals involves substituting a consumption-based tax for the current income tax.

Proponents of fundamental tax reform generally hope that shifting to a consumption tax base will bring about increased savings and invest­ment and will simplify compliance and enforcement. Except for an occasional obligatory bow to the assertedly positive effects of these reforms on U.S. "international competitiveness," the public debate about tax reform rarely addresses international implications of the tax reform proposals. Yet these proposals would dramatically alter the international as well as the domestic tax landscape. Moreover, the open nature of the U.S. economy would fundamentally affect any impact of the tax reform.

This paper evaluates selected international aspects of three leading fundamental tax reform proposals; the Schaefer-Tauzin-Chrysler national retail sales tax, the Nunn-Domenici "Unlimited Savings Account" tax (the "USA" tax), and the Armey-Shelby "flat tax" (the "Flat Tax"). A threshold problem is simply to understand how these three proposals work, both as taxes generally and with respect to cross­border transactions in particular. In order to understand the effects of each of the three proposals, Part II begins with a discussion of consump­tion as a tax base and the usual approaches to taxing consumption at the business or personal level, as well as the usual approach to determining the geographic reach of the tax. Each of the three proposals is then described, with particular reference to its treatment of cross-border activity.

Part III considers decisions made in the proposals to tax on a desti­nation or origin basis, and compares the forms of consumption taxes proposed to the standard credit-invoice method value-added tax ("VAT') adopted by most other developed countries. The differences between these three proposals and the internationally accepted credit­ invoice method VAT have ramifications affecting interaction with the VA Ts of other countries. Part III also evaluates differences in the approaches taken under the three tax reform proposals with respect to the GATT rules proscribing export subsidies for sales of goods, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of origin- or destination-based taxes.

Part IV discusses the problems associated with consumption taxa­tion of cross-border services generally, as well as taxation of financial services. This discussion identifies some of the practical problems of a consumption tax in an international environment.

Part V considers the international implications of replacing the fed­eral income tax, including in particular the interaction of a reformed U.S. system with other countries' tax systems. In this section, and throughout the paper, it must be remembered that we are examining a consumption tax, not an income tax. Thus, the principal implications of Part V relate to the proposals' expressed objective that the United States have no income tax. The resulting "mix" of income and consumption taxes (i.e., all consumption and no income taxes) would be different from that of any other major developed country. We also consider the implications of such a dramatic change in the international tax landscape for and likely "first order" responses by U.S. and foreign investors and foreign governments.

The principal objective of this paper is to explain and to help the reader achieve some understanding of the three tax reform proposals as they would apply to international transactions. Where possible, the pro­posals are evaluated using the tax policy criteria of impact on economic efficiency, equity in distribution of tax burden, and the administrative burden of compliance with and enforcement of the tax. 5 As tax lawyers, not economists, any economic observations are based on our attempts to understand and apply the relevant economic principles.

Finally, the proposals are discussed as they have been proposed. There is no attempt to evaluate the likelihood of modifications to the proposals, or to predict the ultimate shape of any consumption tax regime which might be adopted.

Suggested Citation:

Shay, Stephen E. and Summers, Victoria, Selected International Aspects of Fundamental Tax Reform Proposals (1997). 51 U. Miami L. Rev. 1029 (1997), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Most, however, have adopted systems to fully or partially integrate the corporate income tax with the personal tax, eliminating or mitigating the two levels of corporate income taxation present in the U.S. "classical" system. While this reduces tax on capital income invested in corporate form, it does not eliminate the "double taxation" of income from capital (that is, the taxation of saved income and the capital income earned with respect to invested capital saved)
See Summers
approximately 15% of aggregate U.S. tax receipts were from general consumption taxes or taxes on specific goods. This contrasts with 28.6% for all OECD countries , p. 130 - 161 Posted: 1965
German Finance Minister Theo Waigel announced a tax reform proposal that would reduce individual and corporate income tax by U.S. $27 billion and increase VAT by U.S. $8.5 to $9 billion over three years Posted: 1997-01-23
German Michaelis
Germany's reliance on personal and corporate income taxes, consumption taxes, and taxes on specific goods was below the OECD average, but its social security taxes were substantially above the OECD average
Finance Minister Announces Tax Reform Proposal, 14 TAx NoTEs INT'L 473 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
713,739
4 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies