Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Polemics: Poverty, Taxes, and Noncompliance

Washington & Lee Legal Studies Paper No. 2016-9

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 253-290, Nov. 2016

40 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2016 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Michelle Lyon Drumbl

Washington and Lee University - School of Law

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The earned income tax credit (EITC) is the most significant earnings-based refundable credit in the U.S. tax system. Designed as an anti-poverty program, it is a social benefit administered by the Internal Revenue Service. The EITC reaches more than 27 million households annually. Studies show it has a positive impact upon the children whose families receive it. Despite its many positives, however, the EITC is a program that for years has been plagued by taxpayer noncompliance: the estimated rate of improper payments on EITC claims has ranged between 20 and 30%, totaling billions of dollars annually. Though it is believed that the majority of EITC noncompliance may be unintentional, public reports of misconduct and fraud add fuel to the political rhetoric about a revenue system in which nearly half of Americans pay no federal income tax.

This article unpacks the rhetoric. It describes why the term “improper payments” is not synonymous with fraud. It places EITC noncompliance within the broader context of the U.S. “tax gap” and examines what intentional EITC noncompliance has in common with sole proprietor noncompliance. It explores motivations for intentional EITC noncompliance and also examines the role of inadvertent error in the overclaim rate. It describes the ways in which self-prepared returns present wholly different challenges than those completed by paid preparers.

Building on the above, the article critiques the Internal Revenue Service for its shortcomings in administering and enforcing the EITC program. The article calls upon the IRS to continue pursuing unscrupulous tax return preparers, but also highlights the need to design meaningful sanctions to punish and deter unscrupulous individuals who self-prepare.

The article addresses these concerns within a comprehensive proposal to increase the amount of information required from all taxpayers (whether self-prepared or using a preparer) at the time of filing. It builds upon theories of taxpayer noncompliance in arguing that greater due diligence requirements will reduce both intentional and unintentional EITC errors. The article also proposes a program that would allow first-time EITC claimants the option to submit substantiating documentation at the time of filing in order to receive an expedited refund.

The article concludes that increasing due diligence requirements at the time of filing, coupled with slowing down the refund process generally, is a reasonable way to improve administration of the EITC program without unduly burdening low-income taxpayers.

Keywords: Earned Income Tax Credit, Poverty Law, Tax Compliance, Tax Policy

JEL Classification: D6, D63, H2, H24, I3, I31, K3, K34

Suggested Citation:

Drumbl, Michelle Lyon, Beyond Polemics: Poverty, Taxes, and Noncompliance (2016). Washington & Lee Legal Studies Paper No. 2016-9, eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 253-290, Nov. 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Kornhauser emphasises that 'tax morale refers to taxpayer attitudes and beliefs-not behaviors
Annual Report to Congress , volume 138 Posted: 2007
Susan Morse , Stewart Karlinsky , Joseph Bankman
Cash Businesses and Tax Evasion Posted: 2009
Stanford Law & Policy Review , volume 37 , p. 40 - 41
Crossref
Sagit Leviner
The Role Tax Preparers Play in Taxpayer Compliance: An Empirical Investigation with Policy Implications' (2012) 60 Buffalo Law Review 1079; Book, 'One Size Does Not Fit All
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,285
RANK
330,157
2 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies