Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency, Information Shocks, and Tax Avoidance

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Apr 2016 Last revised: 6 Nov 2018

Jon N. Kerr

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 16, 2015

Abstract

This study helps provide clarity to the prior mixed findings on the association between the transparency of the financial information environment and tax avoidance by studying the effect that transparency has on tax avoidance in a cross-country sample through aggregate - and firm-level tests. By using the adoption of IFRS and the initial enforcement of insider trading laws around the world as exogenous shocks to transparency, this study addresses empirical concerns regarding endogeneity and reverse causality not fully addressed in prior research. Results using firm- and country-level (aggregate) measures of transparency and tax avoidance show that countries and firms with greater levels of transparency exhibit lower levels of tax avoidance and that the effect of country-level transparency is incremental to firm-level transparency. Results of difference-in-difference tests using the adoption of IFRS as an exogenous shock to financial transparency (while also controlling for other, potentially confounding changes around IFRS adoption) provide further evidence that transparency has a statistically and economically significant effect on tax avoidance. Additional tests using the initial enforcement of insider trading laws as another exogenous shock as well as tests that address potential correlated but omitted variables show consistent results. These findings suggest that financial transparency is an important tool which regulators can use in battling tax avoidance and that laws passed around the time of IFRS adoption to ensure that firms did not have an increase in tax liability may have been less than effective due to the corresponding effect of IFRS adoption on transparency.

Keywords: transparency, tax avoidance, information environment, IFRS adoption, international

JEL Classification: F2, G3, H25, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kerr, Jon N., Transparency, Information Shocks, and Tax Avoidance (September 16, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761140 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,208
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies