Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remittances and Public Finances: Evidence from Oil-Price Shocks

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-022

28 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2016

Zareh Asatryan

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Benjamin Bittschi

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Date Written: March 3, 2016

Abstract

We study the effect of inflowing remittances - a major source of capital for many countries - on tax-revenues and tax-policy. Instrumenting remittances with changes in the oil-price interacted with a country's distance to oil-producing countries, we find that remittances have a large positive effect on VAT revenues but no effect on income-tax revenues. This suggests that remittances often escape the income tax but can be taxed via consumption. We further show that tax policy is responsive to shocks in incoming remittances: remittances make the adoption of VAT-systems more likely, and they lead to lower VAT-rates and higher income-tax rates.

Keywords: Remittances, Tax revenue, Tax policy, Value added tax, Personal income tax, Migration, Development

JEL Classification: F24, H20, O23

Suggested Citation:

Asatryan, Zareh and Bittschi, Benjamin and Dörrenberg, Philipp, Remittances and Public Finances: Evidence from Oil-Price Shocks (March 3, 2016). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2762296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2762296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Y Abdih , R Chami , J Dagher , P Montiel
Remittances and institutions: Are remittances a curse?
World Development , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 657 - 666 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Y Abdih , R Chami , C Ebeke , A Barajas
Remittances channel and fiscal impact in the Middle East
IMF Working Papers , volume 12 Posted: 2012
D Acemoglu , A Finkelstein , M J Notowidigd
Income and health spending: Evidence from oil price shocks
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 1079 - 1095 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P A Acosta , E K Lartey , F S Mandelman
Remittances and the Dutch disease
Journal of International Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 116 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
502,214
8 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies