Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decanting and its Alternatives: Remodeling and Revamping Irrevocable Trusts

South Dakota Law Review, Vol. 55, No. 2, 253

Posted: 13 Apr 2016

Thomas Simmons

University of South Dakota Knudson School of Law

Date Written: April 11, 2010

Abstract

Trust decanting is the process of distributing a trust estate of an irrevocable trust to the trustee of a new trust. Recognized under the common law and now statutorily by ten states, decanting can achieve a number of goals and objectives, from correcting drafting errors to responding to beneficiaries’ changed circumstances or objectives. Procedural requirements, fiduciary considerations, and tax issues will be explored.

Keywords: trusts, decanting, GST, gift tax, fiduciary, reformation

JEL Classification: K19

Suggested Citation:

Simmons, Thomas, Decanting and its Alternatives: Remodeling and Revamping Irrevocable Trusts (April 11, 2010). South Dakota Law Review, Vol. 55, No. 2, 253, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2763108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,062
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies