Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outsourcing of Accounting Tasks and Tax Management: Evidence from a Corporate Tax Rate Change

Applied Economics Letters, Vol. 23, No. 7, 2016

9 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2016

Henrik Höglund

Hanken School of Economics

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: May 5, 2015

Abstract

The aim of this article is to investigate if small firms react to a national corporate tax rate reduction by managing their taxable income. In contrast to previous studies, we also analyze whether outsourcing of accounting tasks affects the magnitude of the reaction. Based on a sample of Finnish firms and measures of earnings management, evidence is provided that firms with an internalized accounting function are more active tax planners in this context. This study suggests that outsourcing of accounting tasks increases the corporate tax reporting quality.

Keywords: Tax management, small firms, Finland, Corporate tax rate

JEL Classification: M10, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Höglund, Henrik and Sundvik, Dennis, Outsourcing of Accounting Tasks and Tax Management: Evidence from a Corporate Tax Rate Change (May 5, 2015). Applied Economics Letters, Vol. 23, No. 7, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2764183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Everaert , G Sarens , J Rommel
Sourcing strategy of Belgian SMEs: empirical evidence for the accounting services. Production Planning & Control: The Management of Operations , volume 18 , p. 716 - 725 Posted: 2007
D A Guenther
Earnings Management in Response to Corporate Tax Rate Changes: Evidence from the 1986 Tax Reform Act
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 230 - 243 Posted: 1994
J J Jones
Earnings management during import relief investigation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 193 - 228 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,101
RANK
439,313
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies