Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing the Auditors: Tax Auditors’ Assessments and Incentives

C.D. Howe Institute ebrie 234

10 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2016

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 5, 2016

Abstract

There is room for improvement in the Canadian Revenue Agency’s (CRA) auditing process, according to a new report from the C.D. Howe Institute. In “Auditing the Auditors: Tax Auditors’ Assessments and Incentives,” author Kenneth J. Klassen proposes that, in addition to traditional measures, the CRA adopt a new metric of success: the ultimate taxes paid after all efforts have been completed, including the appeals process, and any possible court decisions.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H11, H26, H39

Suggested Citation:

Klassen, Kenneth, Auditing the Auditors: Tax Auditors’ Assessments and Incentives (April 5, 2016). C.D. Howe Institute ebrie 234, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2765134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
A A Arens
Auditing: The Art and Science of Assurance Engagements
Canadian Thirteenth Edition Posted: 2016
A Arya , J Fellingham , J Glover
Teams, Repeated Tasks and Implicit Incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 30 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Spring Report of the Auditor General of Canada Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
502,214
6 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies