Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management Around Swedish Corporate Income Tax Reforms

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 12, No. 3, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2016 Last revised: 25 Jun 2018

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: August 6, 2015

Abstract

Prior literature considers a change in the national corporate income tax (CIT) rate as a strong firm incentive to manage earnings. This article examines the link between two recent CIT reforms in Sweden and earnings management with a large dataset of private firms. The effects of tax rate cuts are estimated on aggregate measures as well as on decomposed measures of accrual-based earnings management. The results suggest that taxation clearly influences these firms in their high book-tax conformity setting. Downward earnings management is documented before the reduction in the CIT rate, consistent with research on public firms with lower book-tax conformity. Primarily accounts receivable is noted to drive these results. Weaker evidence is provided with the inventory and depreciation accrual vehicles. The tax effects are statistically and economically significant. Furthermore, the income-decreasing behaviour prior to the CIT reforms is observed to be persistent over time.

Keywords: book-tax conformity, earnings management, corporate income tax, discretionary accruals, financial accounting, private firms, specific accruals, Sweden, tax accounting incentives, tax reform

JEL Classification: M10, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Sundvik, Dennis, Earnings Management Around Swedish Corporate Income Tax Reforms (August 6, 2015). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 12, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
271,971
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies