Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Collector or Tax Avoider? An Investigation of Intergovernmental Agency Conflicts

Accounting Review, 92(2): 247-270

Posted: 7 Sep 2016 Last revised: 19 Oct 2017

Tanya Y. H. Tang

Brock University

Phyllis Mo

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

K. Hung Chan

Lingnan University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 8, 2016

Abstract

Local governments play dual, but conflicting roles in China’s tax system. That is, they are both tax collectors and controlling shareholders of firms subject to tax payments. We investigate how local governments balance their tax collection and tax avoidance incentives. We find that the conflicts between central and local governments arising from the 2002 tax-sharing reform have led to more tax avoidance by local government-controlled firms, particularly when the local government’s ownership percentage of the firms is higher than the tax-sharing ratio. We also find evidence that the overall level of tax avoidance by local government-controlled firms in a region is positively associated with local fiscal deficits. As a high level of government ownership of corporations and intergovernmental tax sharing are common phenomena in many transitional economies, this study offers valuable insights into how the dual roles played by local governments affect tax policy enforcement in these economies.

Keywords: Tax Sharing Reform; Tax Avoidance; Tax Collection; Intergovernmental Agency Conflicts; Local Fiscal Deficits

JEL Classification: H26, H71, M40, G38

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Tanya Y. H. and Mo, Phyllis and Chan, K. Hung, Tax Collector or Tax Avoider? An Investigation of Intergovernmental Agency Conflicts (July 8, 2016). Accounting Review, 92(2): 247-270, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765771
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,704
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies