Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Google's 'Alphabet Soup' in Delaware

16 Houston Business and Tax Law Journal 1 (2016) lead article

31 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2016 Last revised: 29 Apr 2016

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Ruth Heilmeier

Cologne Graduate School in Management

Date Written: February 18, 2016

Abstract

In this article the tax avoidance planning of Google’s “Alphabet” Delaware reorganization is explored in detail. The recent Google reorganization created an IP parent holding company in Delaware (“Alphabet”) yielding potential state corporate income tax avoidance benefits, including: (1) incremental royalty expense deductions in non-combined reporting states; (2) potential exclusion of foreign royalty income from the tax base in combined reporting states; (3) creation of a constitutional challenge to the taxation of foreign royalty income of Alphabet; and (4) domestic IP license benchmark for foreign affiliates to allow for repatriation of offshore cash by higher royalty payments. The article suggests that U.S. states are not obliged to follow a formalistic method of legal interpretation of tax transactions that lack economic substance (i.e., to recognize the Alphabet reorganization), and further addresses Google’s corporate slogan “don’t be evil” in light of its aggressive federal and state tax avoidance behavior.

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret and Heilmeier, Ruth, Google's 'Alphabet Soup' in Delaware (February 18, 2016). 16 Houston Business and Tax Law Journal 1 (2016) lead article, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
See Robert , W Wood &amp; Steven , E Hollingworth
SILOs and LILOs Demystified, TAX NOTES Posted: 2010-10-11
John Hancock Life Ins , p. 81 - 82 Posted: 2013
Edison Consol , Co
Crossref
Fed. Cir Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,073
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,459
RANK
47,400
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies