Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Reform By Means of Corporate Integration

Forthcoming, Florida Tax Review (Fall 2016)

U of Houston Law Center No. 2016-A-6

67 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2016 Last revised: 15 Feb 2017

Bret Wells

University of Houston Law Center

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

This Article focuses on a single organizing question, namely how should a dividend paid deduction regime be designed so that it achieves acceptable international tax outcomes. By focusing on the international tax implications attendant with a dividend paid deduction regime, the author is not attempting to minimize the broader benefits of achieving shareholder-corporate integration. The dividend paid deduction proposal, as to distributed earnings, would equate the tax treatment of debt and equity, and in so doing it would reduce distortions that current law creates with respect to debt and equity in the corporate context. Furthermore, recent economic works suggest that the incidence of the corporate income tax burden is partially shifted to labor and away from shareholders whereas a properly designed integration proposal puts the incidence of business taxation squarely on shareholders. Furthermore, shareholder-corporate integration for C corporations harmonizes the divergent tax treatment that currently exists between C corporations and pass-through entities. Thus, a corporate integration proposal provides a broad spectrum of potential benefits, and so not surprisingly significant scholarship has been dedicated towards how to best achieve shareholder-corporate integration. But, in today’s era, the overwhelming tax policy problem that must be solved rests on finding a solution to the systemic international tax challenges that face the country, and so that is where this Article will focus. In Part I, the Article sets forth three major systemic international tax policy challenges that plague the extant U.S. international tax regime. In Part II, this Article evaluates the dividend paid deduction proposal in light of these systemic policy challenges and then provides analysis for how a properly designed dividend paid deduction regime can solve each of the international tax challenges set forth in Part I. Finally, in Part III, this paper draws tentative conclusions about the way forward.

Keywords: international tax tax reform, base erosion and profit shifting, BEPS, earning stripping, corporate integration, dividend paid deduction

Suggested Citation:

Wells, Bret, International Tax Reform By Means of Corporate Integration (April 18, 2016). Forthcoming, Florida Tax Review (Fall 2016), U of Houston Law Center No. 2016-A-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Income (comm
A Coordinated Withholding Tax on Deductible Payments, 119 TAX NOTES 993 , p. 995 - 96 Posted: 2008
See Transfer Pricing Issues: Hearing Before the H
Comm. on
&amp; Ways , Means , ; Cong , A Statement Of Martin , Sullivan
economist , volume 8 , issue 10 Posted: 2010
Reuven S Avi-Yonah &amp; Ilan , Benshalom
Formulary Apportionment: Myths and Prospects , volume 371 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
211,623
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Houston Law Center, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies