Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Sparing, FDI, and Foreign Aid: Evidence from Territorial Tax Reforms

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 758

52 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2016 Last revised: 27 Apr 2016

Céline Azémar

University of Glasgow

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

The governments of many developing countries seek to attract inbound foreign direct investment (FDI) through the use of tax incentives for multinational corporations (MNCs). The effectiveness of these tax incentives depends crucially on MNCs' residence country tax regime, especially where the residence country imposes worldwide taxation on foreign income. Tax sparing provisions are included in many bilateral tax treaties to prevent host country tax incentives being nullified by residence country taxation. We analyse the impact of tax sparing provisions using panel data on bilateral FDI stocks from 23 OECD countries in 113 developing and transition economies over the period 2002-2012, coding tax sparing provisions in all bilateral tax treaties among these countries. We find that tax sparing agreements are associated with 30 percent to 123 percent higher FDI. The estimated effect is concentrated in the year that tax sparing comes into force and the subsequent years, with no effects in prior years, and is thus consistent with a causal interpretation. Four countries - Norway in 2004, and the U.K., Japan, and New Zealand in 2009 - enacted tax reforms that moved them from worldwide to territorial taxation, potentially changing the value of their preexisting tax sparing agreements. However, there is no detectable effect of these reforms on bilateral FDI in tax sparing countries, relative to nonsparing countries. These results are consistent with tax sparing being an important determinant of FDI in developing countries for MNCs from both worldwide and territorial home countries. We also find that these territorial reforms are associated with increases in certain forms of bilateral foreign aid from residence countries to sparing countries, relative to nonsparing countries. This suggests that tax sparing and foreign aid may function as substitutes.

Keywords: FDI; International Tax; Development; Foreign Aid; Tax Sparing

JEL Classification: H25; F21; F35

Suggested Citation:

Azémar, Céline and Dharmapala, Dhammika, Tax Sparing, FDI, and Foreign Aid: Evidence from Territorial Tax Reforms (April 18, 2016). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 758, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2767184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2767184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Andreoni
Impure Altruism and Donations to Public Goods: A Theory of Warm-Glow Giving
The Economic Jounal , volume 100 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
Crossref
D H Autor
Outsourcing at Will: The Contribution of Unjust Dismissal Doctrine to the Growth of Employment Outsourcing
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Azémar , R Desbordes , J.-L Mucchielli
Do Tax Sparing Agreements Contribute to the Attraction of FDI in Developing Countries?
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 543 - 562 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Azémar , R Desbordes , I Wooton
Country Size and Corporate Tax Rate: Rationale and Empirics Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,388
RANK
176,143
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies