Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Use Prior Tax Avoidance When Pricing Tax Loss Carryforwards?

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Apr 2016

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Adam J. Olson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 21, 2016

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code allows firms to carry excess tax losses forward to offset future taxable income and reduce taxes. Consistent with tax loss carryforwards (TLCFs) creating a significant asset, prior research finds investors positively value TLCFs. However, investors face significant uncertainty about whether firms will have sufficient future taxable income to benefit from TLCFs. We hypothesize that investors’ valuation of new TLCFs will vary with firms’ prior tax avoidance behavior because it signals firms’ abilities to generate taxable income to offset TLCFs through tax planning. We confirm that investors assign a positive value to new TLCFs and find that investors’ valuation varies with firms’ prior tax avoidance behavior. Investors positively value TLCFs when firms exhibit high variability in prior tax avoidance and high levels of prior tax avoidance. Our results are incremental to the effect of changes in the valuation allowance on investors’ valuation of new TLCFs.

Keywords: tax loss carryforwards; prior tax avoidance behavior; firm valuation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

McGuire, Sean T. and Neuman, Stevanie S. and Omer, Thomas C. and Olson, Adam J., Do Investors Use Prior Tax Avoidance When Pricing Tax Loss Carryforwards? (April 21, 2016). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2768375
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies