Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Analysis of the Tax Burden of Mining Firms versus Non‑Mining Firms in Australia

Australian Tax Forum, Vol.31, 2016

37 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2016

Estelle Li

Australian National University (ANU)

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Date Written: December 10, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates both the explicit and implicit tax burdens of mining firms versus non‑mining firms in Australia for the period from 2006 to 2009. Explicit tax burdens are measured by current effective tax rate. Implicit tax burdens are present if firms receiving tax subsidies suffer reductions in pre‑tax rate of return.

The results show that mining firms have a lower explicit tax burden than non‑mining firms after controlling for firm size, capital intensity and foreign operations. Mining firms do not incur offsetting implicit tax on the mining‑specific income tax subsidies, but non‑mining firms suffer implicit tax on the tax subsidies received. Moreover, mining firms are found to have a significantly higher pre‑tax rate of return on equity than non‑mining firms because low resource taxes on resources extracted from Australia mean low cost of sales for mining firms.

This study depicts a comprehensive picture of the equity dimension of the Australian corporate income tax system, with a focus on the differential tax burdens of mining and non‑mining firms.

Keywords: explicit tax; implicit tax; mining firms

Suggested Citation:

Li, Estelle and Tran, Alfred, An Empirical Analysis of the Tax Burden of Mining Firms versus Non‑Mining Firms in Australia (December 10, 2015). Australian Tax Forum, Vol.31, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2770249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
G Richardson , R Lanis
Determinants of the variability in corporate effective tax rates and tax reform: evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 Posted: 0689
Crossref
G Richardson , R Lanis
Corporate effective tax rates and tax reform: evidence spanning Australia's Ralph review of business taxation reform
Australian Tax Forum , volume 109 Posted: 2008
A V Tran , Y H Yu
Effective tax rates of corporate Australia and the book-tax income gap
Australian Tax Forum , volume 233 Posted: 2008
A V Tran , Porcano
Effective tax rates of Australian companies: industry and size effects
Pacific Accounting Review , volume 9 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
RANK
741,983
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies