Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Green Deal Goes Sour for the Clean Energy Sector in Great Britain

Journal of Global Justice and Public Policy, Vol. 2, p. 459, 2016

9 Pages Posted: 8 May 2016 Last revised: 10 May 2016

Joshua Gamboa

Regent University School of Law, Journal of Global Justice and Public Policy

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

Individual European country taxes have recently been tailored towards a policy that incentivizes clean energy alternatives in order to curb CO2 and other harmful emissions that contribute to the continent’s carbon footprint. Cutting against this established tax policy, the European Court of Justice surprisingly held in European Commission v. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland that a national discount on Value-Added Tax (“VAT”) for energy-saving materials flouted European Union rules by misapplying two exemptions. This Case Commentary argues that the European Union has overstepped its boundaries as a supra-national entity when it sets the definition of “social policy” that is solely in the interpretive domain of a member state at the national level, which in this case is the United Kingdom.

Keywords: United Kingdom, VAT Tax, Green Deal, Tax Policy, Clean Energy, Solar Energy, Solar Industry, British Law, European Union

JEL Classification: K23, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gamboa, Joshua, The Green Deal Goes Sour for the Clean Energy Sector in Great Britain (May 1, 2016). Journal of Global Justice and Public Policy, Vol. 2, p. 459, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2773345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
See U K Comm&apos;n V
HC 1033 (UK) (illustrating that the absence of the reduced rate scheme in the United Kingdom's treasury budget for
See generally HM TREASURY, BUDGET 2013 Posted: 2013
U K Comm&apos;n V
, volume 14 , p. 40 - 41
Crossref
The test called for the exemptions and reduced rates to be adopted (1) according to clearly defined social reasons; and (2) for the benefit of the final consumer
See Id Para
29 (discussing the U.K.'s argument that the reduced VAT rate will improve housing quality)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
741,983
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies