Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: An Evolving Theory

150 Tax Notes 455 (2016)

7 Pages Posted: 2 May 2016 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 25, 2016

Abstract

With increased technology and access to information, corporations have evolved in order to reflect the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in their global business strategies. Some companies, such as Starbucks Corporation, have taken this concept a step further and chose to voluntarily pay additional taxes in order to appease the public. This article discusses some of the conclusions from a coming Houston Business and Tax Law Journal article in which Dr. Narotzki discusses how CSR, combined with the initiative of responsible tax planning, can improve harmful tax practices.

Although it is perfectly legal to minimize tax liability, it is often debated whether or not it is morally ethical. In today’s society, corporations hold just as much power, if not more, than political affiliates. Dr. Narotzki argues that it is for this reason that many individuals have started looking to multinational companies to act on a more socially responsible level than they have in the past. By pairing CSR with the initiative of reducing harmful tax competition, Dr. Narotzki believes a new business standard can be achieved that will redistribute wealth through taxes to local economies. Bringing awareness of this issue and reinforcing the idea of creating a standard to citizens will help to build an economy that fosters responsible tax planning and shifts at least some of the burden of tax off individuals, and more onto multinational corporations.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, Taxation, Tax, Corporate Tax, ESG

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, K34, M14, L21, M10

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron, Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: An Evolving Theory (January 25, 2016). 150 Tax Notes 455 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2773033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Allan Sloan
For Tax Techies, P&G's Deal With Coty Is a Thing of Beauty
The Washington Post Posted: 1921
Harmful Tax Competition -An Emerging Global Issue Posted: 1998
Hugh J Ault
Ruling the World: Generating International Legal Norms
34 Brooklyn J. Int'l L , volume 757 Posted: 2009
Robert T Kudrle
The OECD's Harmful Tax Competition Initiative and the Tax Havens: From Bombshell to Damp Squib
Global Econ. J , volume 1524 , issue 8 , p. 1524 - 5861 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,522
RANK
145,309
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies