Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Trading Around the Ex-Dividend Day

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 41, No. 2, 2016

Posted: 4 May 2016

Andrew Ainsworth

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Kingsley Fong

UNSW Business School

David R. Gallagher

Bond University

Graham Partington

University of Sydney - School of Business - Finance Discipline; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

This study uses the trading records of institutional equity funds to examine their ex-dividend trading behaviour. We argue that trading is influenced by the tax incentives facing the fund, the characteristics of individual stocks and by changes in tax legislation. In aggregate, institutions trade to avoid the dividend and franking credit. Changes in tax incentives and the fund’s tax status also affect ex-dividend day trading, with unit trusts dominating the dividend avoidance trades. The results indicate that taxes, transactions costs and the cum-dividend price run-up influence the trading of institutional investors around the ex-dividend day.

Keywords: Capital Gains Tax, Dividends, Ex-Dividend Day, Institutional Trading, Tax Credits

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Andrew and Fong, Kingsley and Gallagher, David R. and Partington, Graham, Institutional Trading Around the Ex-Dividend Day (May 1, 2016). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 41, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2774371
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,360
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies