Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From the Lab to the Field: A Review of Tax Experiments

ICTD Working Paper 46, 2016

32 Pages Posted: 6 May 2016

Giulia Mascagni

Institute of Development Studies (IDS), Brighton - International Centre for Tax and Development

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

Tax experiments have been gaining momentum in recent years, although this literature dates back several decades. With new developments in methods and data availability, tax experiments have gradually moved away from lab settings and towards the field. This movement from the lab to the field has happened against the background of the ‘credibility revolution’ in applied economics, which has seen more rigorous methods applied to policy relevant questions, and of the availability to researchers of administrative data from tax returns. These developments have allowed significant advances in the experimental literature on tax compliance. This paper reviews this literature, giving particular attention to field experiments using administrative data, but putting them in the broader context of the compliance literature. A particular effort is made to take a global perspective, in a literature that is only recently seeing the emergence of evidence from Africa, Latin America and Asia.

Keywords: tax experiments; administrative data; tax compliance; randomisation

Suggested Citation:

Mascagni, Giulia, From the Lab to the Field: A Review of Tax Experiments (February 1, 2016). ICTD Working Paper 46, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2776589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2776589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Attitude-behavior relations: A theoretical analysis and review of empirical research
Psychological bulletin , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 888 - 918 Posted: 1977
Crossref
M Ali , I H O.-H. Fjeldstad , Sjursen
To pay or not to pay? citizens' attitudes towards taxation in Kenya Posted: 2015
Merima Ali , Abdulaziz Shifa , Abebe Shimeles , Firew B Woldeyes
Information Technology and Fiscal Capacity in a Developing Country: Evidence from Ethiopia
ICTD Working Paper 31 Pages: 29 Posted: 1 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Giulia Mascagni , Christopher Nell , Nara Monkam , Denis Mukama
The Carrot and the Stick: Evidence on Voluntary Tax Compliance from a Pilot Field Experiment in Rwanda
ICTD Working Paper 57 · 34 Pages · Posted: 23 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 141
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Giulia Mascagni , Christopher Nell , Nara Monkam
One Size Does Not Fit All: A Field Experiment on the Drivers of Tax Compliance and Delivery Methods in Rwanda
ICTD Working Paper 58 · 50 Pages · Posted: 23 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 492
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
449,075
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies