Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing a Simple and Fraud-Proof Tax System: Australia

IMPROVING VAT/GST: DESIGNING A SIMPLE AND FRAUD-PROOF TAX SYSTEM, M. Lang, I. Lejeune, eds, IBFD, The Netherlands, 2014

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/34

70 Pages Posted: 10 May 2016

Rebecca Millar

The University of Sydney Law School

Lorenna Moon

Independent

Date Written: May 9, 2016

Abstract

This working paper, explains and evaluates key aspects of Australia’s GST (a value added tax), focussing on aspects of the law that are of relevance to a comparative tax law scholars considering how legal and policy design features of VAT/GST laws affect the level of simplicity/complexity of the and reduce/increase opportunities for fraud. The discussion is focused on 7 broad topics: (1) Neutrality; (2) VAT groups and head office-to-branch transactions; (3) Financial services, including insurance; (4) Anti-avoidance rules; (5) Advance rulings; (6) the VAT gap; and (7) Compliance costs and costs of collection.

The final version of this paper was published as “Chapter 2 - Australia” in Michael Lang and Ine Lejeune (eds.), Improving VAT/GST: Designing a Simple and Fraud-Proof Tax System, (2014: IBFD, Amsterdam), pp. 23-110. The paper was initially prepared in the form of a response to a questionnaire prepared by the editors of that book on various aspects of the VAT/GST law, case law, and policy in participating countries. Responses were workshopped at a conference in 2011 and subsequently modified into standalone works in which the key features of each country’s law were identified, explained, and compared in a way that would be comprehensible in a global context.

Both on its own and in concert with the other chapters in the book, this paper provides a comparative tax law perspective on the challenging issues facing value added taxes around the world and the ways in which countries are addressing administration and collection issues to try to minimise and/or combat VAT/GST evasion and avoidance.

Keywords: VAT, GST, consumption tax, comparative tax law, value-added tax, goods and services tax

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Millar, Rebecca Mescal and Moon, Lorenna, Designing a Simple and Fraud-Proof Tax System: Australia (May 9, 2016). IMPROVING VAT/GST: DESIGNING A SIMPLE AND FRAUD-PROOF TAX SYSTEM, M. Lang, I. Lejeune, eds, IBFD, The Netherlands, 2014, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Taxation Administration Act 1953, Schedule 1, sec , p. 359 - 379
Taxation Administration Act 1953, Schedule 1, sec , p. 359 - 399
Taxation Administration Act 1953, s3AA and Income Tax Assessment Act 1997, sec , p. 995 - 996
Practice Statement Law Administration PSLA
Precedential ATO View , volume 3 Posted: 2003-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,366
RANK
357,528
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies