Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consistency of Mandatory and Voluntary Management Earnings Forecasts and Implications for Analyst and Investor Information Processing

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-42

47 Pages Posted: 14 May 2016

Richard A. Cazier

University of North Texas

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: April 21, 2016

Abstract

In this study we examine whether managers' voluntary forecasts of future earnings are consistent with the implicit forecasts of future earnings that underlie a specific mandatory accrual, the valuation allowance. This accrual relies heavily on managerial estimation and is also based, in part, on managers’ private, forward-looking information. Thus, it provides an ideal setting to investigate the interplay between voluntary and mandatory financial disclosures. By examining the consistency between the voluntary and mandatory forecasts, we are also able to provide insight into whether the predictable accrual-related bias in voluntary earnings forecasts carries over into the mandatory forecast embedded in the valuation allowance. We then investigate whether the biased voluntary earnings guidance helps analysts and investors more accurately interpret the information in valuation allowance changes about future earnings expectations. To increase the power of our tests we utilize a sample of loss firms, which frequently record valuation allowances to fully or partially offset deferred tax assets.

We first document that more than 62 percent of our sample of loss firms report valuation allowance changes and management earnings guidance that convey the same basic information about future earnings (i.e., either both forecast profit or both forecast loss). Thus, these voluntary and mandatory forecasts are largely consistent with each other. We then provide evidence that managers provide overly pessimistic forecasts for observations whose valuation allowance changes signal bad news about future earnings, but overly optimistic forecasts for observations whose valuation allowance changes signal strong good news about future earnings. Finally, our results suggest that managers' biased earnings forecasts actually help analysts and investors more accurately interpret the information about future earnings in valuation allowance changes. Our findings provide new insights into actions managers can take to improve investor and analyst processing of financial statement-based tax information.

Keywords: Valuation Allowance, Management Forecasts, Voluntary Disclosure, Mandatory Disclosure

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M49,

Suggested Citation:

Cazier, Richard A. and Rego, Sonja O. and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee) and Wilson, Ryan J., The Consistency of Mandatory and Voluntary Management Earnings Forecasts and Implications for Analyst and Investor Information Processing (April 21, 2016). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2779712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2779712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
M Hanlon
The persistence and pricing of earnings, accruals, and cash flows when firms have large book-tax differences
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 166 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Hayn
The information content of losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 123 - 153 Posted: 1995
Crossref
P Hribar , H Yang
CEO Overconfidence and Management Forecast
Contemporary Accounting Research (forthcoming Posted: 2015
Crossref
L Hwang , C Jan , S Basu
Loss firms and analysts' earnings forecast errors
The Journal of Financial Statement Analysis , volume 1 , issue 2 Posted: 1996
Load more
2 Citations
Zhuoli Axelton , Jeffrey Gramlich , M. Harris
How Do Auditors Learn to Forecast? Evidence from the Predictive Power of the Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance
56 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 292
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexander S. Edwards
The Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance and Firm Creditworthiness
52 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2017 · Last revised: 17 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,938
RANK
222,859
2 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies