Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changing U.S. Tax Jurisdiction: Expatriates, Immigrants, and the Need for a Coherent Tax Policy

San Diego Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 1, 1997

92 Pages Posted: 15 May 2016

Jeffrey M. Colon

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 1997

Abstract

Over the last eighty years, Congress has failed to develop a coherent approach to persons and property changing U.S. tax jurisdiction. Congress has enacted a comprehensive regime to address the transfer of property outside the U.S. when the beneficial owner of the property continues to be subject to U.S. residence basis taxation. This regime, however, is inconsistent with that applicable to property leaving and entering U.S. tax jurisdiction because the owner of the property leaves (expatriates) or enters U.S. tax jurisdiction, even though identical tax policy issues arise. This article argues that Congress should adopt a mark-to-market tax regimes for persons and property that enter or leave U.S. residence or trade or business taxation.

Suggested Citation:

Colon, Jeffrey Miguel, Changing U.S. Tax Jurisdiction: Expatriates, Immigrants, and the Need for a Coherent Tax Policy (March 1, 1997). San Diego Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 1, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2779139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Samuel Tuyisenge
The Grounds under Which the Court May Pierce the Corporate Veil
30 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
834,175
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies