Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Products and Sources Basis Taxation: U.S. International Tax Policy at the Crossroads

University of Illinois Law Review, Vol. 1999, No. 3, 1999

70 Pages Posted: 15 May 2016

Jeffrey M. Colon

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 1999

Abstract

The increasing use of derivatives to manage financial risks raises significant challenges for legislators and tax administrators in forging a coherent U.S. tax regime. Through the creative use of derivatives, taxpayers can transform a highly taxed return into an economically equivalent but lower taxed return. In the cross-border setting, the adroit use of derivatives by foreign investors can transform, for example, a U.S. source dividend taxed at thirty percent into an equivalent swap return taxed at zero percent. Although there are valid arguments to tax synthetic returns similarly as the returns to which they relate, This article argues that the United States should eschew such an approach with respect to cross-border users of financial products. Given the current exemption for foreign investors for capital gains and interest, any attempt to tax synthetic returns would require rules that would be frightfully complex, may violate tax treaty obligations, and could actually cost the United States tax revenue if other countries followed suit. Instead, The growth in derivatives may present an opportune time for tax administrators to re-evaluate U.S. international tax policy and consider, at least in the treaty context, the exemption from source basis taxation of all investment returns earned by foreign investors.

Suggested Citation:

Colon, Jeffrey Miguel, Financial Products and Sources Basis Taxation: U.S. International Tax Policy at the Crossroads (May 1, 1999). University of Illinois Law Review, Vol. 1999, No. 3, 1999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2779174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
See Michael Siconolfi
Term Capital apparently used this technique to leverage their investment in the partnership Posted: 1998-11-16
I R C See
The terms "securities dealer" and "security" are defined in § 475(c)(1) and (2). Securities traders can elect to be covered by the mark-to-market provisions of § 475
Currently
passive investors from swap counterparties resident in our major investment partners, such as Switzerland
Lionel Aeschlimann, Taxation of Derivative Financial Instruments in Switzerland Comes of Age, 4 DERIVATIVES: TAX, REG. & FIN. at , volume 94 , p. 95 - 96 Posted: 1998
Aurielo Giovanelli , &amp; Claudia Barsotti
The New Italian System of Taxation of Financial Instruments, 4 DERIVATIVES: TAX REG. & FIN , volume 15 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,120
RANK
610,038
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies