Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italian and Swiss Voluntary Disclosure Policies: A Critical Comparative Analysis

11 Pages Posted: 15 May 2016

Davide Marchesini Mascheroni

Independent

Date Written: May 13, 2016

Abstract

The fight against offshore evasion is increasingly becoming a global current topic of fair taxation, specially following the international agreements on automatic exchange of information in tax matters entering into force in the near future. In particular, how to design a voluntary disclosure programme, complementing and reinforcing one’s own tax compliance strategy, represents one of the main issues being discussed today into the international tax environment.

A growing number of internal legislators have been drafting their own rules on voluntary disclosure, trying to find a meeting point between the need to provide sufficient incentives for non-compliant taxpayers to come forward and the will not to reward a non-compliant conduct.

The following article compares the key features of two targeted strategies, different from each other, adopted into the Italian and Swiss legislations and highlights the reasons behind both approaches, trying also to deliver new arguments on eventual inferences in the short term arising from the end of the era of banking secrecy.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, Italian, Swiss, comparison, tax compliance

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Marchesini Mascheroni, Davide, Italian and Swiss Voluntary Disclosure Policies: A Critical Comparative Analysis (May 13, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2779811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2779811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
456,685
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies