Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Kill-Switches in the New U.S. Model Tax Treaty

Brooklyn Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, 2016

39 Pages Posted: 18 May 2016 Last revised: 19 Jun 2016

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Alexander Ezenagu

McGill University, Faculty of Law, Students

Date Written: May 15, 2016

Abstract

The new US model income tax treaty contains an unusual addition: mechanisms for the parties to unilaterally override the negotiated treaty rates in specified circumstances. Previewed last year in proposed form — a first for Treasury — these new mechanisms work as kill-switches, partially terminating the treaty as to one or both treaty partners. The idea is to forestall a more problematic outcome, such as an enduring breach of one of the parties’ expectations, or the opposite, a complete termination of all the treaty terms in the face of such a breach. Yet embedding a kill-switch in a treaty creates distinct legal, procedural, and political pressures in the tax-treaty relationship that implicate treaty negotiation, ratification, interpretation, and dispute resolution. Kill-switches also communicate a defensive tenor in the tax treaty relationships among many countries. This Article analyzes the new kill-switch provisions and concludes that their introduction in the U.S. Model reflects the steady deterioration of tax treaties from essentially diplomatic documents premised on the good faith of the parties to detailed contracts drafted in anticipation of the opposite.

Keywords: taxation, treaties, international law, tax policy, treaty disputes

JEL Classification: E62, H2, K34, F02, F23, F42, H87, K33, D78

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison and Ezenagu, Alexander, Kill-Switches in the New U.S. Model Tax Treaty (May 15, 2016). Brooklyn Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2780091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Agreement Between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital Gains Posted: 1993-04-05
Crossref
For a discussion, see Christians, supra note 4. Tax sparing was contemplated and even proposed for inclusion in one treaty (with Pakistan), but it was ultimately rejected by the United States, largely due to the vigorous opposition of Stanley Surrey
As well as for its violation of the principle that treaties should not be used to reduce domestic taxation of , volume 156 Posted: 1958
Supra Oecd , Note
, volume 98
Crossref
IRS International Tax Counsel Danielle Rolfes stated that the special regime definition would not be self-executing, and that the treaty partners "would be able to agree that a particular regime is not a special regime Posted: 2015-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,225
RANK
185,789
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies