Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Tax Governance and Transparency: A Matter of Ethical Motivation

Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 06/2016

17 Pages Posted: 18 May 2016

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Ave-Geidi Jallai

Tax Law Department, Tilburg Law School, Tilburg University

Date Written: May 17, 2016

Abstract

Multinationals’ tax practices are the subject of much discussion nowadays. The media has been reporting stories about tax avoidance and/or companies not paying their “fair share” of taxes. Thus, multinational enterprises are currently in the eye of the storm. Their allegedly aggressive tax planning practices have led to public outcry. Politicians have shared this public sentiment, sometimes even accusing these multinationals of “immoral” behaviour. There are no clear signs that the storm will calm soon. What should multinationals do?

The current debate clearly calls for ethical reflection. It appears that there is something inherent in tax planning that is not covered by the traditional legal distinction between (illegal) corporate tax evasion and tax avoidance. Aggressive tax planning is not discussed in terms of legal or illegal behaviour, but in moral terms. This development demands that multinational enterprises reflect on their tax planning strategy – not only in economic and legal terms, but also in ethical terms. Therefore, this article addresses the relationship between society, morality and taxes. Morality regards the behaviour of individuals, but does it also concern the behaviour of businesses? Furthermore, the concept of tax planning is elaborated on, and we will show that the concepts “aggressive tax planning”, “tax evasion” and “tax avoidance” represent different relationships between law and morality. Taxes are a cost item, but aggressive tax planning may also imply certain costs. Reputation damage, for example, may involve considerable costs. It will be argued that in order to improve corporate reputation, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a helpful tool.

Could (moral) leadership be shown by including tax in a business’ CSR strategy? Moreover, does the ethical obligation to go beyond what is required by the law – key to CSR companies – encompass transparency? Good tax governance should enhance accountability and transparency, thus diminishing information asymmetry. In this regard, we propose to make a distinction between an intrinsic motivation to do the right thing (with a favourable reputation as an upshot) and extrinsic motivation (such as concern for favourable reputation in order to boost shareholder value).

Keywords: tax planning, multinationals, good tax governance, transparency, corporate social responsibility, CSR, Carroll

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans and Jallai, Ave-Geidi, Good Tax Governance and Transparency: A Matter of Ethical Motivation (May 17, 2016). Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 06/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2781205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2781205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
An Open Letter from Kris Engskov' at Starbucks' webpage <http Posted: 2016
Yougov See , Brandindex
Google is spared the public's anger over UK tax spat (21
See also YouGov BrandIndex, 2014 - Annual Rankings: UK Top Improvers , volume 11 Posted: 2012
A Crane , D Matten , L J Spence
Corporate Social Responsibility: Readings and Cases in Global Context , p. 8 - 9 Posted: 2008
S Lewis
CSR - a Religion With Too Many Priests?' 15
Journal of Communication Management , volume 4 , p. 356 - 394 Posted: 2003
Load more
3 Citations
Viktoria Wöhrer
What is the Cost of Transparency? Does it Outweigh the Benefits Obtained from Greater Transparency?
Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2018-S-72, Vol. 6, No. 1, Special Issue: Tax · 62 Pages · Posted: 19 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hans Gribnau , albert van steenbergen
Handle with Care: Transparency as a Means to Restore Trust in Taxation
36 Pages · Posted: 23 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 24 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 478
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ave-Geidi Jallai
Good Tax Governance: International Corporate Tax Planning and Corporate Social Responsibility – Does One Exclude the Other?
Tilburg Law School Research Paper Forthcoming · 211 Pages · Posted: 9 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 1,067
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
685
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,492
RANK
87,023
3 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies