Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Sharing Agreements & The Arm's Length Standard: A Matter of Statutory Interpretation?

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2016

34 Pages Posted: 25 May 2016

Sienna White

Jones Day

Date Written: May 10, 2015

Abstract

The arm’s length standard has been the touchstone of international transfer pricing and Internal Revenue Code Section 482 for the better part of a century, but its relevance is under scrutiny. A growing consensus among the international community suggests the arm’s length standard is no longer adequate to accurately and fairly tax the multinational enterprises that make up the modern global economy. In this paper, I examine the implications of the Xilinx saga and conclude that both the Ninth Circuit and the IRS were incorrect: the arm’s length standard should function as a legal principle, with explicit exceptions, rather than as a legal rule. The post-Xilinx landscape will be further altered by the Ninth Circuit outcome of Altera, which may open the door for additional regulatory challenges to Treasury regulations promulgated outside the Administrative Procedure Act. Rather than maintaining the status quo, the United States should adopt a transfer pricing system that reflects economic reality, but also embodies the spirit of Section 482 — creating parity between taxpayers. Only then can we begin to restore public confidence in the fairness and efficacy of our country’s tax system — and make transfer pricing jurisprudence clearer instead of “curiouser.”

Keywords: transfer pricing, international tax, administrative law, tax law, Xilinx, Altera, BEPS

JEL Classification: E62

Suggested Citation:

White, Sienna, Cost Sharing Agreements & The Arm's Length Standard: A Matter of Statutory Interpretation? (May 10, 2015). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2783103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
See Willard Taylor
2005-6654; see also AviYonah, Proposal for Reconciliation
Testimony before the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform, TAX NOTES Posted: 2005-04-04
Alen Mattich , On Apple , Corporate Fiat , Wall Tax Arbitrage , St
J Moneybeat ; See Generally , Merle Erickson
How Prevalent Is Tax Arbitrage? Evidence from the Market for Municipal Bonds
NAT. BUR. ECON. RES , volume 6 Posted: 2002
See Joseph Stiglitz
See Santiago E. Fontiveros, Xilinx-Transfer Pricing Cost Sharing and the Nuances of Legal Interpretation
ATLANTIC MONTHLY , volume 36 Posted: 2002-10
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
RANK
198,294
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies