Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Follow the Money: Essays on International Taxation - Introduction

Follow the Money: Essays on International Taxation (Yale Law School, May 2016)

Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 538

Yale Law & Economics Research Paper No. 543

17 Pages Posted: 31 May 2016 Last revised: 23 Jun 2016

Michael J. Graetz

Columbia Law School; Yale Law School

Date Written: May 26, 2016

Abstract

Publicity about tax avoidance techniques of multinational corporations and wealthy individuals has moved discussion of international income taxation from the backrooms of law and accounting firms to the front pages of news organizations around the world. In the words of a top Australian tax official, international tax law has now become a topic of barbeque conversations. Public anger has, in turn, brought previously arcane issues of international taxation onto the agenda of heads of government around the world.

Despite all the attention, however, issues of international income taxation are often not well understood. This Introduction outlines a collection of essays, written over the past two decades, that reveals how current international tax policy came into place nearly a century ago, critiques the inadequate principles still being used to make international tax policy, identifies and dissects the most prevalent tax avoidance techniques, and offers important suggestions for reform.

The book is available for free download via the Yale Law School Library Documents Collection Center.

Keywords: international tax, international income taxation, multinational corporations, international tax policy, tax avoidance, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Graetz, Michael J., Follow the Money: Essays on International Taxation - Introduction (May 26, 2016). Follow the Money: Essays on International Taxation (Yale Law School, May 2016), Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 538, Yale Law & Economics Research Paper No. 543, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2784804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
taxation based on the location of consumers. That, for now, is as close to an ending as I have to offer-unsatisfying as it may be
Michael J Graetz
Posted: 2016-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
147,906
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Yale Law School, Law, Economics & Public Policy Research Paper Series

Follow

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies