Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Law in the Post-BEPs World

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-47

60 Pages Posted: 30 May 2016 Last revised: 4 Aug 2016

Christiana HJI Panayi

Queen Mary University of London, School of Law

Date Written: May 25, 2016

Abstract

This paper will review themes arising from the OECD/G20 BEPS project and the final deliverables published in October 2015. The author examines some reverberations from the final deliverables and post-BEPS developments. The author questions whether the final deliverables address the problems identified at the inception of the project and the possible impact of this on the development of international tax law. Developments in the European Union in this area are also analysed. It is argued that while some developments in the international tax arena were to an extent anticipated and long overdue, the developments in the EU are short of ground-breaking. It is shown how post-BEPS, the EU institutions are taking a very active and high-profile role in the fight against aggressive tax planning. There is a review of the most important initiatives such as the Tax Transparency Package, the Action Plan on A Fair and Efficient Corporate Tax System and the Anti-Tax Avoidance Package.

The paper concludes with a discussion on the future of international tax law in the post-BEPS world.

Note: The author was given a grant from the Singapore Management University – Tax Academy Centre for Excellence in Taxation to conduct this research.

Suggested Citation:

HJI Panayi, Christiana, International Tax Law in the Post-BEPs World (May 25, 2016). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2785480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2785480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
See false , Doc
For commentary, see Luc De Broe
At Last, Some Output on the Fight against Double Non-Taxation , issue 6 , p. 310 - 312 Posted: 2014
Evgenia For , Evgenia Kokolia , Chatziioakeimidou
BEPS Impact on EU Law: Hybrid Payments and Abusive Tax Behaviour , p. 149 - 156
Filip Debelva , &amp; Juris Luts
The General Anti-Abuse Rule of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive Posted: 2015
Hji See , Panayi
Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,041
RANK
146,022
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies