Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Financial Transactions in Fundamentally Heterogeneous Markets

22 Pages Posted: 31 May 2016

Edoardo Gaffeo

University of Trento - Department of Economics and Management

Massimo Molinari

Bank of Italy

Date Written: May 30, 2016

Abstract

The recent global financial crisis has revived a well-honored debate on the desirability and feasibility of taxing financial activities to curb speculation and promote price stability. In this paper we apply agent-based computational techniques to explore this issue in a multi-market environment in which the processes driving the fundamental value of the securities traded in different jurisdictions are heterogeneous. A natural exemplification is to assume that security dealers have the opportunity of submitting orders by choosing among stock markets at different stages of development. We argue that the proper policy objective to be targeted is not volatility in itself, but that in excess of the discounted stream of subsequent dividends, that is price efficiency. In this case, a global coordination is incentive-compatible, given that it minimizes the distortion associated to speculative trading on the one hand, and it ensures that the loss of trading volume is lower if compared to the case of unilateral taxation on the other one. Notwithstanding a fundamental heterogeneity of the markets involved, the optimal tax rate turns out to be uniform.

Keywords: Agent-based models, Financial transaction tax, Heterogeneous traders

JEL Classification: C63, D53, G18

Suggested Citation:

Gaffeo, Edoardo and Molinari, Massimo, Taxing Financial Transactions in Fundamentally Heterogeneous Markets (May 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2786691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
T Andersen , T Bollerslev , F Diebold , C Vega
Real-time price discovery in global stock. bond and foreign exchange markets
Journal of International Economics , volume 73 , p. 251 - 277 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Baltagi , D Li , Q Li
Transaction tax and stock market behavior: evidence from and emerging market
Empirical Economics , volume 31 , p. 393 - 408 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Bekaert , C Harvey
Emerging equity market volatility
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 29 - 77 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Bresnahan , P Milgrom , J Paul
The real output of the stock exchange
Output Measurement in the Service Sectors. Chicago Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
747,753
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies