Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modernizing Business Taxation

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 452, May 2016

28 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2016

Robin Boadway

Queen's University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Centre Interuniversitaire sur le Risque, les Politiques Economiques et l'Emploi (CIRPEE)

Jean-Francois Tremblay

University of Ottawa - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 31, 2016

Abstract

The Canadian corporate income tax system is subject to a number of problems that call for fundamental reforms, starting with rethinking the main role of the system. The corporate tax is mainly designed to serve as a withholding device for the personal income tax. It prevents shareholders from sheltering corporate-source earnings from the personal income tax by taxing those earnings at source. Integration of the corporate income tax and of the personal income tax, through the dividend-tax credit and the preferential treatment of capital gains, mitigates the potential for double taxation. We argue that exposure to international capital markets, which implies that the incidence of the corporate tax is largely shifted to labour, and the fact that most capital income can be sheltered from the personal income tax undermine the withholding role of the corporate tax and make integration provisions unnecessary. The current system also leads to distortions in firms’ investment decisions, financing decisions, risk-taking and innovation efforts, and decisions about where to locate business activities and where to report profits. Tax competition and international profit-shifting are also putting downward pressure on tax rates. This Commentary examines these problems and formulates a number of recommendations for reform. The main one involves changing the tax base from shareholder income to above-normal profits, or rents. This could be done with relatively little disruption of the current system by adopting the allowance for corporate equity (ACE) tax system which allows firms to deduct from taxable income the cost of equity financing, in addition to deducting interest on debt. Ideally, this tax base would apply to both incorporated and unincorporated businesses. Adopting the ACE would narrow the tax base, although the potential loss in revenue would be entirely compensated by eliminating the dividend-tax credit and the partial tax exemption of capital gains, as we argue should be done. Our proposed reforms include a number of other elements. First, the territorial approach for taxing international active business income should apply. Second, firms should be allowed to carry forward and backward tax losses at the risk-free interest rate, which would encourage risk-taking and innovation. Third, we recommend maintaining the small business deduction to compensate for the non-refundability of losses, which are more prevalent among small businesses. However, eligibility should be determined on the basis of a lifetime threshold rather than an annual one. Finally, in order to promote innovation, introducing a preferential tax rate for patent income, as well as extending flow-through share financing to investment in small innovative firms, should be considered.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Boadway, Robin and Tremblay, Jean-Francois, Modernizing Business Taxation (May 31, 2016). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 452, May 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2788818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2788818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Olumuyiwa Adedeji , John Thornton
International Capital Mobility: Evidence from Panel Cointegration Tests
Economics Letters , volume 99 , p. 349 - 352 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Wiji Arulampalam , Michael Devereux , Giorgia Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
Wealth Maximization and the Cost of Capital
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , p. 433 - 246 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Alan Auerbach , Michael Devereux , Helen Simpson
Taxing Corporate Income
Dimensions of Tax Design Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,066
RANK
229,292
8 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies