Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will Bringing Sales Onshore in the U.K. Lead to Higher Taxes?

Jeffery M. Kadet and Tommaso Faccio, “Will Bringing Sales Onshore in the U.K. Lead to Higher Taxes?”, 82 Tax Notes Int'l 679 (May 16, 2016)

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2016

Tommaso Faccio

Nottingham University Business School

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: May 16, 2016

Abstract

The authors discuss changes to the scope of the U.K. royalty withholding tax announced in the 2016 U.K. budget, which, along with the new diverted profits tax, could cause significant increases in U.K. tax paid by multinationals. As will be seen from the example set out in the article, the U.K. royalty withholding tax announced in the 2016 U.K. budget is a major portion of this increase. This will have a major impact on the economics of profit-shifting structures involving revenues that require on-the-ground sales, marketing, and other support activities in the U.K. The U.K.’s actions should be closely examined and may well be followed by numerous other countries feeling the effects of aggressive profit-shifting structures.

Keywords: United Kingdom, U.K., DPT, Diverted Profits Tax, Royalty Withholding Tax

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Faccio, Tommaso and Kadet, Jeffery M., Will Bringing Sales Onshore in the U.K. Lead to Higher Taxes? (May 16, 2016). Jeffery M. Kadet and Tommaso Faccio, “Will Bringing Sales Onshore in the U.K. Lead to Higher Taxes?”, 82 Tax Notes Int'l 679 (May 16, 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2789833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,018
RANK
623,124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies