Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accumulation of Tax-Loss Carryforwards: The Role of Book-Tax Non-Conformity

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2016-03

41 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2016 Last revised: 26 Jan 2017

Saskia Kohlhase

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: June 13, 2016

Abstract

Using confidential corporate income tax return data, this paper investigates the association between book-tax non-conformity (measured as book-tax differences) and tax-loss carryforwards (TLCFs). I find that TLCFs are positively associated with temporary and permanent book-tax differences. Only firms with positive pre-tax book income and negative taxable income (double-picture firms) drive the positive association between TLCFs and temporary book-tax differences. Conversely, the positive association of TLCFs and permanent book-tax differences is present for double-picture firms and the remaining firms. The results suggest that double-picture firms, which feature high TLCFs compared to their size and to the remaining firms, use temporary book-tax differences to report a lower taxable income than pre-tax book income. Thus, this paper contributes to the understanding of the drivers of rising TLCFs. This is important, as offsetting TLCFs against future profits jeopardizes a country’s tax revenue.

Keywords: Loss firms, Book-tax differences, Corporate taxation, Public finance

JEL Classification: H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Kohlhase, Saskia, Accumulation of Tax-Loss Carryforwards: The Role of Book-Tax Non-Conformity (June 13, 2016). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2016-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2794992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2794992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach
The Significance of Tax Law Asymmetries: An Empirical Investigation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach , M Cooper , M Knittel
Understanding U.S. Corporate Tax Losses
Tax Policy and the Economy , p. 73 - 122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-Tax Conformity, Earnings Persistence and the Association between Earnings and Future Cash Flow
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home Country Tax System Characteristics and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
RANK
314,322
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies