Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Proposal to Reform the United States Gift Tax Annual Exclusion

30 Vand. J. Transnat'l L. 949

Belmont University College of Law Research Paper

72 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016

Jeffrey Kinsler

Belmont University - College of Law

Date Written: 1997

Abstract

This Article analyzes the U.S. gift tax annual exclusion, the main exemption to U.S. gift tax laws. The Article develops the history and purpose of the gift tax annual exclusion to demonstrate that the current system does not accomplish its original purposes. The Article concludes that reform is needed and proposes legislation to simplify the gift tax laws and create a more equitable gift tax law system. The Article uses the gift tax laws of New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Japan, and the Netherlands as models for U.S. gift tax reform legislation.

Keywords: United States gift tax annual exclusion

Suggested Citation:

Kinsler, Jeffrey, A Comparative Proposal to Reform the United States Gift Tax Annual Exclusion (1997). 30 Vand. J. Transnat'l L. 949, Belmont University College of Law Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Belmont University College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies