Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
General Report, GAARs – A Key Element of Tax Systems in the Post-BEPS World

Michael Lang, Jeffrey Owens, Pasquale Pistone, Alexander Rust, Josef Schuch and Claus Staringer (eds), GAARs – A Key Element of Tax Systems in the Post-BEPS World (Amsterdam: IBFD, 2016), pp 1-20

20 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 1 Aug 2016

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

While General Anti-Avoidance Rules (GAARs) around the globe display a remarkable diversity in terms of both design and operation, a closer look reveals a number of common themes or issues in the world's GAARs. This general report is based on reports of the GAARs in 39 countries. It classifies GAARs into broad models and then examines the situations in which GAARs are used and the significance of a taxpayer's purpose or motive for arranging transactions in the application of a GAAR. It then looks at how a counterfactual is developed if it is concluded a transaction should be disregarded following application of the GAAR. The risk of abuse of a GAAR by tax authorities is reviewed followed by a consideration of the interaction of GAARs and SAARs (specific anti-avoidance rules) and GAARs and tax treaties and GAARs and EU law. Finally, it reviews alternatives to the use of GAAR and the possible role of GAARs in the future.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard, General Report, GAARs – A Key Element of Tax Systems in the Post-BEPS World (June 1, 2016). Michael Lang, Jeffrey Owens, Pasquale Pistone, Alexander Rust, Josef Schuch and Claus Staringer (eds), GAARs – A Key Element of Tax Systems in the Post-BEPS World (Amsterdam: IBFD, 2016), pp 1-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
India See
Crossref
See , Ireland
See , Liechtenstein Hungary
Crossref
See , Ireland
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
578
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,287
RANK
108,311
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies