Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organisational Power and Compliance by Taxpayers: Case Study of Single Business Tax Permit in City Council of Nairobi

51 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2016

Charles Muriuki

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Kevin Nyamis

University of Nairobi - School of Business

Mr. Kennedy Mganga Chilibasi

University of Nairobi; University of Nairobi - School of Business

Date Written: November 9, 2007

Abstract

Low voluntary compliance by tax payers is a matter of serious concern in many developing countries. A number of scholars have suggested that vigorous enforcement of the tax laws, application of higher penalties and increasing the frequency of audits will increase compliance. However there must be other forces at work because observed compliance levels cannot be fully explained by the level of enforcement actions typical of most tax authorities. In particular, there are observed differences which may not necessarily be related to enforcement effort in the level of compliance behavior across local authorities in Kenya.

The role of surveillance, salience and relevance in the relationship between source of power and voluntary compliance, involuntary compliance, identification in single business tax permit payments is tested. The research design was survey where primary data on compliance levels of single business owners operating within the city council of Nairobi is collected through the use of questionnaires. Convenience sampling was used. A sample of 30 respondents were interviewed. Empirical estimation was based on frequency analysis of the tested indicators of the variables such as surveillance, relevance and salience. To establish the nature and strength of the relationships among the various variables and test the hypothesized relationships, descriptive statistics were used. An updated version of the Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) will be used to carry out the analyses.

The research showed that 60% of the sample population indicated that Nairobi City Council's (NCC's) officials frequently visit business premises every 1-2 weeks to confirm whether individuals have paid for the single business tax permit.90% of the sample population indicated that the Nairobi City Council's (NCC's) officials arrest individuals due to failure/non-compliance to payment of the Single Business Tax Permit.96.7% of the sample population indicated that Nairobi City Council's (NCC's) officials do not close business premises. However 80% of the sample population pays the single business tax permit between January and March while the rest of the sample comprising of 6 respondents pay the Single Business Tax Permit in the period between April and June. The study recommends surveillance towards influencing the single business owners in the payment of Single Business Tax Permit.

Keywords: compliance, surveillance, salience, relevance, single business tax permit

Suggested Citation:

Muriuki, Charles and Nyamis, Kevin and Chilibasi, Kennedy Mganga, Organisational Power and Compliance by Taxpayers: Case Study of Single Business Tax Permit in City Council of Nairobi (November 9, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2797671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2797671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
889,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies