Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Depreciation-Related Capital Gains, Differential Tax Rates, and the Market Value of Real Estate Investment Trusts

Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2016

Dan W. French

Lamar University; University of Missouri at Columbia

S. McKay Price

Lehigh University - Perella Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2016

Abstract

We develop a model for valuing U.S. real estate investment trusts (REITs) that considers the tax liability impounded in REITs’ property portfolios. This liability is a function of the portfolio’s accumulated depreciation and is driven by different tax rates applied to individual components of the total gain from property sales. These two components are the capital gain resulting from the sale of property at a price higher than its cost and the gain due to the recapture of depreciation taken during the use of the property. Our measure of value is the REIT’s net asset liquidation value (NALV). The metric of REIT value currently used by analysts is a REIT’s net asset value (NAV), but a REIT’s NAV will always be greater than the NALV and therefore overestimate market value, all else equal. Finally, using observed market prices for REITs, we provide evidence that NALVs give superior estimates of REIT market prices than do NAVs.

Keywords: depreciation, valuation, real estate investment trusts, REITs

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, G20, M40

Suggested Citation:

French, Dan W. and Price, S. McKay, Depreciation-Related Capital Gains, Differential Tax Rates, and the Market Value of Real Estate Investment Trusts (June 22, 2016). Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2799883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Auerbach
Share valuation and corporate equity policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 305 Posted: 1979
Crossref
A J Auerbach , K A Hassett
On the marginal source of investment funds
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 205 - 232 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Barkham , D Geltner
Price discovery in American and British property markets
Real Estate Economics , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 44 Posted: 1995
Crossref
L Benveniste , D R Capozza , P J Seguin
The value of liquidity
Real Estate Economics , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 660 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Spenser J. Robinson , Arjun Singh
The Impact of Green Labels on U.S. Hotel Net Operating Income: Operating Statements Analyses
Journal of Sustainable Real Estate, Forthcoming · 23 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 100
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ryan Chacon , Dan W. French , Kuntara Pukthuanthong
The Information Content of NAV Estimates
Forthcoming, Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics · 50 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David C. Ling , Sugata Ray , Alan Tidwell , Luqi Xu
Value Implications of REITing and De-REITing
The Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Forthcoming · 41 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 367
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,870
RANK
390,908
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies