Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How the Rich Respond to Anticipated Tax Increases: Evidence from the 1993 Tax Act

27 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2016

Gerald Auten

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

Laura Kawano

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Date Written: May 24, 2014

Abstract

We examine the responses of high-income taxpayers to the increases in the top income tax rates under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. We use a large panel of tax returns spanning 1987 to 1996 to estimate the elasticity of taxable income using a difference-in-differences approach. We estimate that the ETI is roughly 0.3 for high-income taxpayers, but that there was significant intertemporal income-shifting ahead of tax rate increases that were easily anticipated. Failing to account for this shifting response produces a much higher ETI estimate of 0.7. We find changes in the types of income reported by high-income households: decreases in wage income, coupled with increases in capital gains and S corporation income which both received preferential tax treatment. While all high-income households re-timed their taxable income ahead of the tax increases, this effect is even stronger for executives. There is also suggestive evidence that executives of S corporations responded, reducing their wage and partnership income and increasing S corporation income, to avoid the uncapping of the employment tax base.

Keywords: Public Finance, Income Tax, Taxable Income Elasticity

JEL Classification: H2, H24

Suggested Citation:

Auten, Gerald and Kawano, Laura, How the Rich Respond to Anticipated Tax Increases: Evidence from the 1993 Tax Act (May 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Gerald Auten , Laura Kawano
Another Look at Taxpayer Responses to the 1993
Act
National Tax Association Papers and Proceedings from the 104th Annual Conference on Taxation Posted: 2012
Crossref
Robert Carroll
Behavior of the Affluent and the 1986 Tax Reform Act
National Tax Association Papers and Proceedings from the 86th Annual Conference on Taxation , volume 81 , p. 681 - 693 Posted: 1994
Robert Carroll
Do Taxpayers Really Respond to Changes in Tax Rates? Evidence from the 1993 Tax Act Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
427,404
3 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies