Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AMT with No or Trivial Transactional Preferences: The Regular Tax Rate Schedule as an Implied AMT Preference

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2016

Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University Research Paper No. 2800546

Posted: 27 Jun 2016

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: October 2015

Abstract

The minimum tax (the precursor to the AMT) regime was enacted in 1969 to address a concern that a number of very wealthy individuals were paying far less income tax than Congress considered fair. Often these taxpayers benefited from preferential tax law provisions in favor of the taxpayer. Congress specifically identified for disallowance in the AMT regime certain of these deductions, credits, and income exclusions (explicit preferences). Taxpayers enjoying explicit preferences to a certain extent would not be surprised if they were subjected to AMT. However, because the AMT exemption was not indexed for inflation until recently (and because the AMT exemption became subject to phase-out), many taxpayers began to find themselves subject to AMT even if their explicit preferences were not, relatively, as large as they were decades before.

This Article distinguishes explicit preferences from “transactional preferences,” which are all explicit preferences other than the taxpayer’s standard deduction and own personal exemption. This Article demonstrates the surprising result that AMT can apply, albeit in limited circumstances, even if there are no transactional preferences (i.e., no excluded income, no credits or deductions for expenditures, and no dependency or spousal exemptions). In other words, the identified circumstances reveal a taxpayer subject to several thousand dollars of AMT despite having no transactions other than gross income taxed in the same manner in the regular and AMT regimes. This Article then investigates other examples in which the taxpayer has no explicit preferences, where we see that many taxpayers are precipitously close to entering AMT, such that a trivial amount of transactional or other explicit preferences will throw them into AMT.

Through extensive textual and mathematical explanation of the causes of these problems, this Article demonstrates that the regular tax rate schedule operates as an implied AMT preference, which clearly was not contemplated by Congress. This Article offers potential solutions to remedy the anomalous (albeit rarely occurring) result of a taxpayer paying AMT with no transactional preferences, as well as the risk of subjecting many other taxpayers to AMT with relatively trivial transactional or other explicit preferences.

Keywords: AMT

Suggested Citation:

Veliotis, Stanley, AMT with No or Trivial Transactional Preferences: The Regular Tax Rate Schedule as an Implied AMT Preference (October 2015). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2016, Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University Research Paper No. 2800546, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800546
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
963
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies