Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Disclosing Audit Quality Control Deficiencies on Non-Audit Tax Services: Evidence from Deloitte’s 2007 PCAOB Part II Inspection Report

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2016 Last revised: 18 Mar 2021

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Sydney Qing Shu

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 17, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether public disclosure of Deloitte 2007 PCAOB Part II report, which identifies quality control deficiencies related to audits of income tax accounts, affects Deloitte’s auditor-provided tax services (APTS). Using a difference-in-differences model, we document a 17 percent lower likelihood of Deloitte’s audit clients employing APTS relative to clients of other annually inspected firms when the report is made public. We also find that the dampening effect of publicly disclosing the Part II report on Deloitte’s APTS is more evident among audit clients paying higher non-audit fees to auditors and those with more complex tax planning. These results suggest that revealing income tax-specific quality control deficiencies prompts audit clients to revise upward (downward) their expected costs (benefits) of perceived auditor independence impairment (knowledge spillover) stemming from APTS. Overall, our study suggests that public disclosure of audit firm-wide quality control deficiencies pertaining to audits of income tax accounts imposes a collateral damage to the inspected firm’s non-audit tax services, thereby providing a more complete understanding of the consequences of the PCAOB’s communications about quality control deficiencies in Part II reports.

Keywords: PCAOB Part II report; auditor-provided tax service; audit quality control deficiency; non-audit service

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Akamah, Herita T. and Shu, Sydney Qing, The Effect of Disclosing Audit Quality Control Deficiencies on Non-Audit Tax Services: Evidence from Deloitte’s 2007 PCAOB Part II Inspection Report (March 17, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
L J Abbott , K A Gunny , T C Zhang
When the PCAOB Talks, Who Listens? Evidence from Client Firm Reaction to Adverse
GAAP-Deficient PCAOB Inspection Reports. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 32 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
A A Acito , C E Hogan , R D Mergenthaler
The effects of PCAOB inspections on auditor-client relationships
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2018
Crossref
N Alsadoun , V Naiker , F Navissi , D S Sharma
Auditor-provided tax non-audit services and the implied cost of equity capital
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2000. Statements on Standards for Tax Services Nos , p. 1 - 8
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
204,845
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies