Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Constraints and Future Tax Outcome Volatility

Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting

44 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2016 Last revised: 25 Aug 2020

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Sydney Qing Shu

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 24, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether variation in the volatility of tax outcomes across firms is associated with the extent of financial constraints. We document a positive association between current-period financial constraints and the volatility of cash effective tax rates in subsequent periods. We find that this positive association becomes more pronounced as firms avoid more cash taxes. These results suggest that as financial constraints increase, the benefits of cash tax savings more likely outweigh the costs associated with more volatile tax outcomes. Recent research documents a negative association between financial constraints and the level of cash taxes paid. Our evidence suggests that tax strategies adopted by more financially constrained firms to increase cash tax savings come at the price of more volatile future tax rates.

Keywords: tax rate volatility; financial constraint; cash effective tax rate; cash tax avoidance; tax strategy

JEL Classification: H21; H25; H26; M41

Suggested Citation:

Akamah, Herita T. and Omer, Thomas C. and Shu, Sydney Qing, Financial Constraints and Future Tax Outcome Volatility (August 24, 2020). Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
P J Frischmann , T Shevlin , R Wilson
Economic consequences of increasing the conformity in accounting for uncertain tax benefits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 261 - 278 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Gallemore , E Labro
The importance of the internal information environment for tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Gopalan , O Kadan , M Pevzner
Asset liquidity and stock liquidity
Journal of Financial Quantitative Analysis , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 70 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Graham , M Hanlon , T Shevlin , N Shroff
Incentives for tax planning and avoidance: Evidence from the field
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 991 - 1023 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
213,115
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies