Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grappling with the ‘Tax Me If You Can’ Era: Configuring a Micro Level Objective Economic Substance Inquiry

88 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2016

Andrew Nyombi

Independent

Date Written: August 6, 2009

Abstract

The Economic Substance Doctrine has been perennially placed at the fulcrum of the IRS’s fight against rising tax shelter activity. The doctrine presupposes that transactions must have economic substance, as the phrasing itself insinuates and should not only be geared at generating tax savings. The Economic Substance inquiry generally involves a two prong test which asks two questions - (i) did the tax payer have a business purpose for engaging in the suspect transaction other than getting tax benefits? (Subjective motivation test), and (ii) did the transaction have economic substance other than tax savings? (Objective analysis test). Most Courts are at par that the two prongs are entirely different standards for economic substance analysis. However, there is still some uncertainty among the Courts as to what each prong really means as different Courts have approached each individual prong differently. Further, there is still ambiguity among the Circuits as at to how the two prong test is to be applied which are evident in the variation in the Circuits’ decisions. Some Courts have said that it is a disjunctive test while others have held that it is a conjunctive test. Elsewhere, there is a simmering revolution that is treating the economic substance inquiry as a unitary analysis which asserts that the two prongs are informed by the same rationale. Practically there are no differences between the unitary analysis and the conjunctive test. A modern species of the Economic Substance Doctrine was evinced in the 1998 decision of ACM Partnership v. Commissioner. In that case it was stated that the objective and subjective motivation tests of the doctrine were not discrete prongs of a rigid “two step analysis” but related factors both of which informed the analysis as to the economic substance of a transaction.

It is apt to realize that corporate tax payers desire to do their tax planning under a system of objective rules that espouses certainty and places less emphasis on subjective overtones especially taking into account the factual complexity of day-to-day business transactions.

Traversing through literature on the doctrine reveals an area of law that is still riddled with uncertainties which have ultimately been an Achilles heel for its applicability. The recent cases of Black & Decker v. United States and Coltec Industries v. United States have re-invigorated a movement towards an objective economic substance doctrine which incorporates a micro-level analysis such that a transaction is separated into different levels to find out whether each level distinctly had economic substance. This thesis argues that the use of a micro-level objective economic substance analysis which takes into account implicit taxes is a most viable solution to effectively formulating a sturdy objective economic substance inquiry for the coming years. The implication here is that by adopting a micro-level objective economic substance analysis the tax payer will only be denied tax benefits for the distinct levels of a transaction that lacked economic substance and not for the entire transaction. This would bring the IRS and the tax payer to a win-win result and makes more practical and economic sense

Keywords: Corporate tax, U.S taxation, Tax shelters, Economic Substance Doctrine, Andrew Nyombi, Louisiana State University Paul M. Hebert Law Center

Suggested Citation:

Nyombi, Andrew, Grappling with the ‘Tax Me If You Can’ Era: Configuring a Micro Level Objective Economic Substance Inquiry (August 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2805659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
Douglas A. Shackelford , Terry J. Shevlin , Terry J. Shevlin
Empirical Tax Research in Accounting
JAE Rochester Conference April 2000 Pages: 109 Posted: 12 Oct 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
See , D Shackelford
The market for tax benefits: Evidence from Leveraged ESOPS
JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING AND ECONOMICS , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 145 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Charlene D Luke
, p. 804 - 806
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies