Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Planning by Multinationals: Simulating a Tax‑Minimising Intercompany Response to the OECD's Recommendation on BEPS Action 4

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31, 2016

32 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2016 Last revised: 5 Oct 2016

Ann Kayis-Kumar

UNSW Sydney

Date Written: March 31, 2016

Abstract

In October 2015, the OECD/G20 presented their final report on the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project. This article presents a unique analysis of the OECD/G20’s recommendation on Action 4 by utilising tax optimisation modelling to simulate and examine a hypothetical multinational enterprise’s (MNE’s) behavioural response to this recommendation.

The literature to date has primarily focused on the “debt bias”, which arises from the distortion in the tax treatment between debt and equity financing. The BEPS Project is no exception, despite acknowledging that the “mobility and fungibility of money makes it possible for multinational groups to achieve favourable tax results”, the focus has remained on the debt bias. Prior work by the author introduced a broader conception of funding biases; specifically, the tax‑induced cross‑border “funding bias”. The funding bias includes intercompany licensing and leasing activities in addition to debt and equity financing.

These four forms of fungible intercompany financing are built into the tax optimisation model developed by this article. This model presents a unique contribution to the literature by simulating complex cross‑border intercompany tax planning strategies. This facilitates a formal analysis of one of the most significant challenges presented by the mobility and fungibility of capital, namely, anticipating how an MNE structures its internal affairs in a tax‑minimising manner given the current tax regime — and designing improvements to tax laws accordingly. The model developed by this article shows that the OECD’s fixed ratio rule is more effective than the current regime of thin capitalisation rules at protecting the tax revenue base from the most tax‑aggressive MNEs. However, the model also indicates that it is ultimately more effective to equalise the tax treatment among otherwise fungible intercompany funding activities. This outcome is consistent with the principle of tax neutrality, which suggests that, ceteris paribus, all like income should be treated alike for tax purposes. This shows that rules eliminating the “underlying disease” (the tax incentive for thin capitalisation) are more effective at targeting BEPS than rules which mitigate the “symptom” (such as thin capitalisation rules or the OECD’s fixed ratio rule).

Suggested Citation:

Kayis-Kumar, Ann, International Tax Planning by Multinationals: Simulating a Tax‑Minimising Intercompany Response to the OECD's Recommendation on BEPS Action 4 (March 31, 2016). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
and portfolio loans) that can easily be located in low-tax countries
The Encyclopedia of Taxation & Tax Policy , volume 157 Posted: 2005
All types of income are treated the same for the purposes of working out the foreign income tax offset": ATO, Guide to foreign income tax offset rules (NAT 72923 Posted: 2014-07
The FITO differs from the FTC in that it applies to both Australian and foreign residents and is not subject to quarantining rules
Barkoczy S, Foundations of Taxation Law
Effective Year of Assessment (YA) 2009, a UTC will be granted on all foreign-sourced income received in Singapore by Singapore tax residents from jurisdictions that do not have DTAs with Singapore": Singaporean Government, Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore, Foreign Tax Credit Posted: 2016-03-21
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
253,661
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies