Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Protection Rights and Tax Information Exchange in the European Union: An Uneasy Combination

Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, 23(3), 514-530

17 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2016 Last revised: 31 Jul 2019

Marcel GH Schaper

Maastricht University - Maastricht Centre for Taxation

Date Written: July 6, 2016

Abstract

Tax administrations in the European Union exchange an ever-increasing amount of information on taxation matters on a mandatory and automatic basis. This development gives rise to data protection concerns. The aim of this article is to examine how these data protection concerns have been recognized by the Union legislator in the recent and fast process towards a comprehensive automatic exchange of tax data of private taxpayers in the European Union. It will be shown that the combination of data protection rights and exchange of tax information legislation proves to be an uneasy one as the Union legislator appears reluctant to provide for data protection safeguards in Union legislation on tax information exchange.

Keywords: Data Protection, Exchange of Information, Administrative Cooperation between Tax Authorities, European Union, Tax Law

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Schaper, Marcel GH, Data Protection Rights and Tax Information Exchange in the European Union: An Uneasy Combination (July 6, 2016). Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, 23(3), 514-530, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the fi eld of taxation
COM , volume 25 Posted: 2016
One exception could be when the title of a company includes the name of a natural person
Corporate tax avoidance: Council adopts rules on the exchange of taxrelated information on multinationals Posted: 2016-05-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
405,369
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies