Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discharge of Late Tax Return Debt in Bankruptcy: Fixing BAPCPA's Draconian Hanging Paragraph

American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , Vol. 24, 2016

39 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2016 Last revised: 2 Dec 2019

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The current majority rule for handling the discharge of tax debt related to a tardily filed tax return is severely distorted and antithetical to sound bankruptcy and taxation policy. For years, it was established law that bankruptcy could discharge stale tax debts. Indeed, the Bankruptcy Code provided a clear and workable standard that delicately balanced the interest of the government as creditor, the debtor's need for a fresh start, and the interest of the general unsecured creditor. This system used a series of timing rules that allowed stale tax debts to be discharged and allowed the government to collect "fresh" tax debts post-bankruptcy.

The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 ushered in many consumer bankruptcy reforms. One of those changes regarded how courts were to treat substitute returns prepared by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") when a taxpayer failed to file any tax return. However, that targeted legislative patch has been incorrectly applied to any and all late tax returns — even if the tax return is filed only one day late — to preclude forever a discharge for that tax debt. This result is a radical sea change in bankruptcy law that is wrong and needs to be remedied.

This Article demonstrates four problems with the majority rule. First, the majority rule violates principles of statutory construction. Second, the effects of the rule are exacerbated in state jurisdictions that do not have substitute return provisions. Third, the majority rule violates the principle that courts do not effect major bankruptcy changes without clear legislative command. Fourth — and perhaps most troubling — is that the majority rule now decouples tax priority and discharge.

This Article therefore provides both legislative and judicial solutions to solve these problems. In particular, this Article advances a better, more workable judicial test — the indispensable element test — to determine whether a late tax return complies with the current statutory elements for bankruptcy discharge.

Keywords: late tax return debt, bankruptcy, BAPCPA, hanging paragraph, discharge, tax priority

JEL Classification: K00, K10, K19, K20, K29, K30, K34, K35

Suggested Citation:

Todd, Timothy M., Discharge of Late Tax Return Debt in Bankruptcy: Fixing BAPCPA's Draconian Hanging Paragraph (2016). American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , Vol. 24, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
See 6 COLLIER ON BANKRUPTCY, supra note 36 , p. 700 - 702
Todd
Crossref
Collier , Bankruptcy
, p. 1322 - 61 Posted: 1322-08-10
Crossref
U S
§ 727 (providing discharge granted unless debtor falls in one of enumerated categories)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,043
RANK
373,668
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies