Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Strangers in a Strange Land' — Chinese Companies in the American Tax System

Hastings Law Journal, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2016 Last revised: 24 Feb 2017

Ji Li

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

Two distinct features describe foreign direct investment (“FDI”) from emerging economies: (1) most of the investors thrive in poor regulatory environments, and (2) the visible hand of the state exerts a powerful influence. Due to these two features, emerging market FDI poses novel questions to tax law scholars and U.S. policymakers. For instance, will the investors import noncompliance practices? Or will they adapt to the complex and stringent regulatory regime of the host country? To answer these questions, this Article presents the first empirical study of Chinese multinational companies operating in the U.S. tax system. Despite wide gaps between the two countries in terms of tax administration and compliance, Chinese investors in the United States generally appear to have adapted to U.S. tax law. In terms of tax audits and disputes with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), this study finds preliminary evidence that distinguishes between the investments of state-owned companies and those of privately-owned companies. Overall, the findings contribute to several important policy and theoretical debates and have significant practical implications.

Keywords: tax, foreign investment, multinational corporations, tax policy, tax administration, comparative tax, international tax, Chinese outbound investment, tax evasion, tax planning

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ji, 'Strangers in a Strange Land' — Chinese Companies in the American Tax System (February 22, 2017). Hastings Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Agnès See Generally , Bénassy-Quéré
How Does FDI React to Corporate Taxation?
Int'l Tax & Pub. Fin , volume 583 Posted: 2005
Crossref
John Mutti , &amp; Harry Grubert
Empirical Asymmetries in Foreign Direct Investment and Taxation, 62
J. Int'l Econ , volume 337 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Steven , Cassou
The Link Between Tax Rates and Foreign Direct Investment, 29 Applied Econ Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,226
RANK
511,635
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies