Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Persistence of Book-Tax Differences

Posted: 21 Jul 2016

Kevin Holland

Cardiff Business School

Nor Shaipah Abdul Wahab

Taylor's University

Date Written: July 19, 2016

Abstract

Academic researchers and policy activists have used the difference between accounting income and estimated taxable income, commonly referred to as the book-tax difference (BTD) as a proxy of the unobservable level of corporate income tax planning. In drawing any policy implications from observed BTDs, an understanding of the sources of BTDs and their properties is important. In particular, identifying the degree of persistence or representativeness of an observed annual BTD is critical.

To the authors’ knowledge, this paper is the first to examine how BTDs and their components e.g. permanent differences, temporary differences and the effect of differences between UK and overseas statutory tax rate behave over time. The necessary data disclosed under IAS 12 Income Taxes (IASB, 2010) has only been systematically publicly disclosed in the UK since 2005. In summary, the results indicate that the degree of persistence is dependent on the nature of the BTD and that this variation in persistence itself varies by industry group. The most persistence component relates to differences between UK and overseas statutory tax rates with temporary differences being the least persistent, indicative of a non-earnings management motivation. Within industry groupings there is wide variation in the level of persistence. While 59.4% of the sample companies experienced only one change of sign BTD at most in the six year period, the balance of the sample had at least two changes.

Keywords: Book-tax differences, Tax avoidance, Permanent differences, Temporary differences, Statutory tax rates differentials

Suggested Citation:

Holland, Kevin M. and Abdul Wahab, Nor Shaipah, The Persistence of Book-Tax Differences (July 19, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811762
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies