Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will Destination-based Taxes Be Fully Exploited When Available? An Application to the U.S. Commodity Tax System

59 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2016 Last revised: 21 Sep 2018

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

We develop a tax competition model that allows for the setting of both an origin-based and a destination-based commodity tax rate in the presence of avoidance and evasion. In the presence of evasion, jurisdictions will give cross-border shoppers tax preferential treatment, thus not fully exploiting the potential of destination-based taxation. Moreover, the divergence between origin and destination-based taxes is stronger when the incentives for consumers' tax-arbitrage opportunities increase. The United States is one example of many such systems. While sales taxes are due at the point of sale, use taxes are due on goods purchased out-of-state. We document that when able to set both rates, a majority of jurisdictions levy destination-based use taxes at a lower rate than origin-based sales taxes. In response to changes in state-level policies that increase tax avoidance opportunities, the results of the empirical model broadly confirm our theory.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Tax Avoidance, Destination Taxation, Origin Taxation, Tax Competition, Use Tax, Sales Tax

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H26, H77, R12

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed, Will Destination-based Taxes Be Fully Exploited When Available? An Application to the U.S. Commodity Tax System (August 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2814189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2814189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,885
RANK
288,883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies