Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income from Immovable Property — Preserving the Situs and the Permanent Establishment Principles

(2016) British Tax Review Issue 3

29 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2016 Last revised: 13 Feb 2017

Dhruv Janssen-Sanghavi

Maastricht University, Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 9, 2016

Abstract

It is accepted that tax treaties should allocate primary taxing rights over immovable property and income from immovable property to the situs state; the state in which a taxpayer has a permanent establishment (PE) should have priority over the state of its residence in so far as the taxation of income attributable to that PE is concerned. However, structural inconsistencies within tax treaties prevent these policies from being reconciled, which may enable tax avoidance. In analysing the relevant historical documents, one discovers a previously discarded solution, which allocates primary taxing rights to the situs state, secondary rights to the PE state and tertiary rights to the residence state.

Keywords: Tax treaties, legal history, double taxation, Permanent establishment, Real property, Situs, Tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Janssen-Sanghavi, Dhruv, Income from Immovable Property — Preserving the Situs and the Permanent Establishment Principles (August 9, 2016). (2016) British Tax Review Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
… Het voordeel uit sparen en beleggen in Nederland wordt gesteld op 4% (forfaitair rendement) van de rendementsgrondslag in Nederland aan het begin van het kalenderjaar (peildatum) Posted: 2001
Act (EStG) provides that an individual is deemed to have her place of habitual abode in Germany should she be continuously present in Germany for a period of more than six months
General Income Tax Posted: 2013
P J Wattel , O Marres
Characterization of Fictitious Income under OECD-Patterned Tax Treaties , volume 3 Posted: 2003
Canada Australia , France , Germany , Japan , Sweden , Uk , J Us ; H , B J Ault , Arnold
Yet other countries which provide for fictitious income from immovable property include: India, Income Tax Act, 1961 s.22 read with s.23(1)(c)
Other countries imposing income tax on imputed income from owner-occupied property , volume 2 Posted: 1998-06-14
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,262
RANK
181,383
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies