Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Compliance Cost of VAT: An Exploration of Psychological and Corruption Costs of VAT in a Developing Country

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 14(1); 2016 166-205

Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 16-16

41 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2016

Nahida Faridy

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Richard Copp

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Date Written: August 16, 2016

Abstract

A Value Added Tax (VAT) is seen as critical in providing the tax revenue base for governments, especially developing nations. However, prior research about VAT compliance costs has largely occurred in developed nations and has generally excluded psychological and corruption costs. This article reports a study which measures and reflects upon the psychological costs both in quantitative and qualitative terms for small and medium enterprises in a developing nation, Bangladesh. The cost of corruption is also considered. The findings of this study provide valuable insights as to what is the true compliance cost for VAT in a developing country.

Keywords: small business, private enterprise, VAT, compliance cost, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H26, L20, L51

Suggested Citation:

Faridy, Nahida and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan and Copp, Richard, The Hidden Compliance Cost of VAT: An Exploration of Psychological and Corruption Costs of VAT in a Developing Country (August 16, 2016). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 14(1); 2016 166-205, Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 16-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
RANK
354,141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies