Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Industrial Diversification on Firm Taxes

The Accounting Review

62 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2016 Last revised: 19 Apr 2022

Kelly Wentland

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: April 12, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether industrial diversification generally provides a tax advantage and how the convexity of the tax system contributes to this benefit. The main findings show multi-industry operations do lower a firm’s taxes and income volatility relative to single industry operations on average, but the benefit is not universal. Namely, there is no significant tax advantage when multi-industry firms have high cross-industry cash flow correlations or when limitations are placed on the convexity mechanism, such as when firms have recent diversifying acquisitions or a high degree of cross-jurisdiction activity. To shed new light on the mechanism through which U.S. firms realize this benefit, I exploit two temporary policies expected to reduce tax convexity via extensions of loss carryback periods. I find these policies also mitigate the tax advantage. Taken together, the results underscore how context matters in determining whether a firm will realize a tax advantage from multi-industry operations.

Keywords: diversification, tax, organizational structure, hedging

JEL Classification: D23, G11, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wentland, Kelly, The Effect of Industrial Diversification on Firm Taxes (April 12, 2022). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2826169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
D Amiram , A Bauer , M M Frank
Tax Avoidance at Public Corporations Driven by Shareholder Taxes: Evidence from Changes in Dividend Tax Policy
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2019
M Ammann , D Hoechle , M Schmid
Is there Really No Conglomerate Discount
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 264 - 288 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,599
RANK
177,685
3 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies