Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Deviating from Financial Reporting Industry Norms: Evidence from the Disclosure of Foreign Cash

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2016 Last revised: 17 Dec 2019

Matt Bjornsen

University of Nebraska at Kearney

Jimmy Downes

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 14, 2018

Abstract

This study examines how investors respond to firm disclosure practices that deviate from the majority of industry peers (i.e., industry norms). The SEC has made repeated calls for the disclosure of foreign cash in order for investors to have more information in determining firms’ liquidity positions. We examine the association between firm value and the non-disclosure of foreign cash in industries where the majority of firms choose to disclose foreign cash. We define partial disclosure as disclosing permanently reinvested earnings (PRE), but withholding the disclosure of foreign cash, and find that when the majority of industry peers disclose foreign cash, investors discount the firm-specific partial disclosure of foreign operations. This finding suggests that investors have similar information demands as the SEC, and that withholding foreign cash results in a valuation discount. We also find that this discount is greater for firms predicted to have higher levels of foreign cash and higher levels of PRE. Firms with low repatriation costs can avoid the valuation discount for nondisclosure. Results are robust to multiple matched samples and entropy balancing. While prior literature has considered the valuation implications of foreign cash disclosures, we reveal the consequences of opting to withhold the disclosure of foreign cash. Our findings should be of interest to both managers and policy-setters in forming their disclosure protocols.

Keywords: Industry Financial Reporting Norms, Peer Effects, Foreign Cash Disclosure

JEL Classification: H26, G32, F21, F23

Suggested Citation:

Bjornsen, Matt and Downes, Jimmy and Omer, Thomas C., The Consequences of Deviating from Financial Reporting Industry Norms: Evidence from the Disclosure of Foreign Cash (December 14, 2018). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2832216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2832216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
L Bryant-Kutcher , L Eiler , D A Guenther , J L , D Mescall , J A Pittman
Tax Avoidance Activities of U.S. Multinational Corporations
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 805 - 833 Posted: 2003
E M Rogers
Diffusion of innovations (5th Ed.) Posted: 2003
P R Rosenbaum
Observational studies Posted: 2002
Crossref
P R Rosenbaum
Observational study
Encyclopedia of statistics in behavioral science , volume 3 , p. 1451 - 62 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Audra Boone , Craig M. Lewis , Austin Starkweather , Joshua T. White
Is the Bottom Line the Top Priority? A Choice Model of Revenue and Earnings Guidance
43 Pages · Posted: 15 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 190
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,127
RANK
225,977
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies