Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity: The Review of Recent Research and Its Implication for the IFRS Adoption in Europe

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 96-118, 2016

20 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2016

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Jan Molín

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

As the goal of corporate taxation contradicts substantially the accounting principles of true and fair view, distinct measures of income are used in corporate and tax accounting. This dichotomy may facilitate an opportunistic behaviour of executives to manage earnings upwards in financial reporting and taxable profits downwards simultaneously. Aligning both measures may restrict the misbehaviour of management, however at cost of losing informativeness of accounting information. The deliberations on the level of book-tax conformity are complicated by international capital mobility, which facilitate the crossborder profit shifting. Finally, the worldwide adoption of IFRS challenges the governments to decide, whether to allow IFRS to be a tax base for corporate taxation. The growing number of opportunities to relocate profits to more favourable jurisdiction constitutes risks, but also opportunities, for governments struggling to retain control over taxation. The decision may influence both the regulatory frameworks and the business practices of companies. The paper analyses the advantages and disadvantages of low/high book-tax conformity. Our analysis rests on the review of respective literature and it is complemented by the classification of real corporate and tax accounting systems of the EU countries after the IFRS adoption. The classification can be employed in research studies, when the control for different aspect of “de jure book-tax conformity” is needed.

Keywords: Book-Tax Conformity, IFRS Adoption, Accounting Choices, Tax Avoidance, Reporting Incentives

JEL Classification: M41, H25

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony and Molín, Jan, Book-Tax Conformity: The Review of Recent Research and Its Implication for the IFRS Adoption in Europe (July 1, 2016). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 96-118, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2835711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Ashiq Ali , Lee-Seok Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Clinton Alley , Simon James
The Interface between Financial Accounting and Tax Accounting: A Summary of Current Research
Working Paper Series University of Waikato , issue 84 Posted: 2005
T J Atwood , S Michael , Linda A Drake , Myers
Book-Tax Conformity, Earnings Persistence and the Association between Earnings and Future Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 136 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
Taxation, Corporate Financial Policy and the Cost of Capital
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 905 - 945 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,033
RANK
222,859
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies