Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Related Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosures, Future Profitability, and Stock Returns

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2016 Last revised: 24 Sep 2018

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Mark Cecchini

University of South Carolina

Anna Cianci

Wake Forest University

Anne Ehinger

Florida State University

Edward M. Werner

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Date Written: September 17, 2018

Abstract

Prior research finds that mandatory risk factor disclosures are informative in that they increase investors’ assessments of the volatility of a firm’s cash flows. However, the literature is silent as to whether these disclosures provide information about the level of future cash flows and, ultimately, their implications for firm value. We address this question by examining the association between Form 10-K risk factor disclosures and future cash flows levels and stock returns. We use the setting of taxes because it is relatively easier to identify the specific income and cash flow statement line items to which these risks relate, and offer two main results. First, we find that tax risk factor disclosures are positively associated with future cash flows. This suggests that, on average, tax risk factor disclosures relate to tax positions that are rewarded with future tax savings. Second, we find that investors incorporate this relation into stock prices. In additional analysis, we find no evidence of a drift in stock prices, suggesting that investors incorporate the implications of tax risk factor disclosures in a timely manner. Overall, our results suggest that risk factor disclosures provide information about the level of a firm’s future cash flows, that the risks discussed in these disclosures are – on average – value-increasing, and that investors incorporate this information into current stock prices.

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Cecchini, Mark and Cianci, Anna and Ehinger, Anne and Werner, Edward M., Tax-Related Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosures, Future Profitability, and Stock Returns (September 17, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2837329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2837329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Ali , L Hwang , M A Trombley
Arbitrage risk and the book-to-market anomaly
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , p. 355 - 373 Posted: 2003
Crossref
E Amir
The effect of accounting aggregation on the value-relevance of financial disclosures: The case of SFAS No. 106
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 573 - 590 Posted: 1996
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B C Ayers , O Z Li , P E Yeung
Investor trading and the post-earningsannouncement drift
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 416 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,542
RANK
96,333
7 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies