Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Companies Use the Domestic Production Activities Deduction?

Tax Notes, Vol. 152, No. 9, 2016

25 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2016

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Ralph Rector

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA)

Date Written: August 29, 2016

Abstract

This paper uses IRS C corporation 2012 tax return data to study the firms that claim the Sec. 199 deduction, thereby providing empirical evidence on the economic significance of the deduction and the characteristics of the companies that benefit from this incentive. The descriptive analyses show that, while the number of firms claiming Sec. 199 benefits is small, these firms are an economically important subset of all corporate firms and report over half of total positive corporate taxable income. Furthermore, corporations report that approximately $440 billion of taxable income qualifies for the deduction, equal to one-third of all corporate taxable income. Additional analyses show that approximately 72% of the deduction is claimed by large, multinational public firms with assets greater than $1 billion. While described as a tax deduction for domestic producers and manufacturers, only 60% of the deduction is claimed by firms in industries traditionally considered to generate production-related income. The statute has thus been applied widely by a number of firms in other industries who have identified some portion of their business that generates qualifying income. We also present data on how the statutory limitations within Sec. 199 reduce the number and extent to which firms claim the deduction, and we show how the number of firms and the amount of benefit claimed has changed over time.

Suggested Citation:

Lester, Rebecca and Rector, Ralph, Which Companies Use the Domestic Production Activities Deduction? (August 29, 2016). Tax Notes, Vol. 152, No. 9, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2837027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,272
RANK
324,400
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies