Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overconfidence and Tax Avoidance: The Role of CEO and CFO Interaction

39 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2016

Tien‐Shih Hsieh

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Department of Accounting & Finance

Zhihong Wang

Clark University

Sebahattin Demirkan

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: September 25, 2016

Abstract

We investigate how top executives’ overconfidence may influence firms’ tax reporting behavior and the role of CEO and CFO interaction in this relationship. We adopt an equity measure to capture overconfident CEOs and CFOs, and utilize multiple measure to identify companies’ tax avoidance behavior. We find that companies with overconfident CEOs (CFOs) are more likely to engage in tax avoidance activities, relative to firms with non-overconfident CEOs (CFOs). We also document an interaction effect showing that companies with overconfident CEOs are more likely to engage in tax avoidance activities when these companies also have overconfident CFOs, relative to those with non-overconfident CFOs. Our results suggest that CFOs, as CEOs’ business partners, play an important role in facilitating and executing overconfident CEOs’ decisions on tax avoidance. Our study helps investors and regulators understand companies’ decision-making processes with regard to tax avoidance.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Overconfidence, CEO, CFO, Executive interaction

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Hsieh, Tien-Shih and Wang, Zhihong and Demirkan, Sebahattin, Overconfidence and Tax Avoidance: The Role of CEO and CFO Interaction (September 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2843355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2843355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
11 Citations
Robert M. Bowen , S. Jane Kennedy Jollineau , Sarah C Lyon , Shavin Malhotra , Pengcheng Zhu
CEO-CFO Compatibility and Audit Risk
51 Pages · Posted: 1 Nov 2019 · Last revised: 20 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 762
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
GATR Journals Submitter , Paulina Sutrisno , Kashan Pirzada
Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related to Tax Avoidance?
Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Sutrisno, P; Pirzada, K. 2020. Are CEO Overconfidence and Audit Firm Size Related To Tax Avoidance?, Acc. Fin. Review 5(2): 56 – 65. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2020.5.2(3), · 10 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 468
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Baptiste Souillard
Profit Shifting, Employee Pay, and Inequalities: Evidence From US-Listed Companies
40 Pages · Posted: 19 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 9 May 2024 · Downloads: 135
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Panagiotis Karavitis , Pantelis Kazakis , Tianyue Xu
Overconfident CEOs, corporate social responsibility, and tax avoidance: Evidence from China
Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation · 51 Pages · Posted: 15 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 22 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 494
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
830
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,480
RANK
67,696
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies