Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Tax Holidays Increase Expectations of Future Tax Holidays: An Examination of Debt Issuances Pre- and Post-AJCA

34 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2016

Tripp Petzel

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Debra Salbador

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: October 3, 2016

Abstract

We examine the relation between a firm’s level of permanently reinvested earnings and its likelihood to issue debt to fund its investments and operations. Pecking order theory predicts that firms will use internal funds over external funds, if internal funds are present. Permanently reinvested earnings are a subset of a firm’s internal funds. Financial accounting rules allow firms to include these foreign earnings on their financial statements as earned without recognizing the associated tax expense. Thus, firms may be inclined to accept the risk associated with debt rather than repatriate funds and bear financial reporting costs.

Using the repatriation holiday created under the 2004 American Jobs Creation Act as a partitioning event, we find that a firm’s likelihood to issue debt is significantly influenced by its level of permanently reinvested earnings, but only in the post-AJCA tax holiday period. These results suggest that (1) firms consider tax and financial reporting costs when deciding whether to issue debt or repatriate funds and (2) there is an expectation for future tax holidays on repatriations. Furthermore, the results suggest the predictions of pecking order theory may not strictly hold when financial reporting and tax rules are taken into account.

Keywords: American Jobs Creation Act, permanently reinvested earnings, taxes, pecking order theory

Suggested Citation:

Petzel, Tripp and Salbador, Debra, Do Tax Holidays Increase Expectations of Future Tax Holidays: An Examination of Debt Issuances Pre- and Post-AJCA (October 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2847242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2847242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
S Albring
The effects of the cost of foreign internal funds on the probability that a firm issues domestic debt
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 41 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Albring , L Mills , K Newberry
Do debt constraints influence firms' sensitivity to a temporary tax holiday on repatriations?
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B C Ayers , C M Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: The magnitude and determinants of undisclosed permanently reinvested earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
580,215
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies