Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Practitioners and Tax Avoidance: Gaming through Authorities, Cultures and Markets

RegNet Research Paper No. 2016/119

26 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2016 Last revised: 28 Oct 2016

Elea Wurth

RegNet - Australian National University; Australian Tax Office

Valerie Braithwaite

Australian National University - Research School of Social Sciences; School of Regulation & Global Governance (RegNet)

Date Written: October 5, 2016

Abstract

Tax practitioners, otherwise referred to as tax agents, tax preparers, tax accountants and tax lawyers, play multiple roles in our tax and financial planning systems. They are gatekeepers to the tax system for those who know they need to engage but want someone else to take care of it for them. Empirical work collected from taxpayers and practitioners supports the idea that practitioners, like other professionals, are responsive to influences from many sources – clients, tax authorities, professional associations, governments, international bodies, and the organisations and cultures in which they work. Tax practitioners operate with imperatives that are not necessarily compatible: to attract clients, meet taxpayer expectations, meet performance standards set by firm partners, build reputation, abide by professional obligations and any associated regulatory standards, and operate in accordance with the rules set down by the tax authority. Tax practitioners have always been considered important as intermediaries of transactions between taxpayers and tax officials. In recent decades their role has become more complicated with recognition that they, not taxpayers hold the special knowledge required to facilitate tax avoidance, or what Lipatov (2012) calls sophisticated as opposed to simple tax evasion.

To understand how to curb the growing acceptance of tax avoidance and the threat it poses to tax systems, the tax practitioner – taxpayer relationship must be understood within a broader social and cultural context. This paper proposes that the tax practitioner – taxpayer relationship is a micro social process to deliver tax compliance. Three models of the tax practitioner and taxpayer experience are reviewed and research on the role of the tax practitioner is discussed within these frameworks. Finally, new data are presented on how tax practitioners operate within the tax preparation market, with full knowledge of oversight by the tax authority. The findings are based on a survey of over 1,000 practitioners preparing and lodging returns for clients with the Australian Taxation Office (Wurth 2013). Drawing on lessons learnt from these three models, an integrated model is provided to broaden the landscape against which we view and study developments in the tax avoidance industry.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Practitioners, Tax Compliance, Regulation, Tax System

JEL Classification: H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Wurth, Elea and Braithwaite, Valerie, Tax Practitioners and Tax Avoidance: Gaming through Authorities, Cultures and Markets (October 5, 2016). RegNet Research Paper No. 2016/119, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2848567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2848567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Susan Addison , Frank Mueller
The dark side of professions: the big four and tax avoidance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 28 , issue 8 , p. 1263 - 1290 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R L Attwell , A J Sawyer
The ethical attitudes of New Zealand tax practitioners -Still 'barely passing
New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 146 Posted: 2001
Canberra: Australian Government Posted: 2009
Ian Ayres , John Braithwaite
Responsive regulation: Transcending the Deregulation Debate Posted: 1994
Load more
5 Citations
Brendan Walker-Munro
Handbook of Research on Theory and Practice of Financial Crimes
, p. 356 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Eukeria Mashiri , Shewangu Dzomira , Dzingirai Canicio , David McMillan
Transfer pricing auditing and tax forestalling by Multinational Corporations: A game theoretic approach
Cogent Business & Management , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1907012 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Minjo Kang
Taxes and Taxation Trends
Posted: 2018
Crossref
Brendan Walker-Munro
Disruption, regulatory theory and China: What surveillance and profiling can teach the modern regulator
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 23 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,960
RANK
111,747
5 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies