Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Disclosing Tax Avoidance: Capital Market Reaction to LuxLeaks

51 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2016 Last revised: 4 Mar 2018

Birgit Huesecken

University of Cologne

Michael Overesch

Universität zu Köln

Alexander Tassius

University of Cologne

Date Written: February 28, 2018

Abstract

This study analyzes the capital market reaction to news about tax avoidance. Because tax information is usually not published, little is known about the effects of disclosing tax avoidance. However, in the course of the event known as LuxLeaks, hundreds of tax documents were released. Unlike other events used in previous studies, the litigation risk, which is generally associated with tax avoidance, is considerably lower because these documents consist of advance tax rulings. Using an event study methodology, we find evidence for significant positive cumulated abnormal returns for the involved firms. Further analyses suggest that the capital market particularly rewards additional tax disclosure if a firm is in the extreme tails of the ETR distribution. Our analysis, however, reveals insignificant market responses to the tax disclosure for large firms and firms with high media coverage, which suggests that there are larger reputational effects if firms are more exposed to public attention.

Keywords: Market Reaction, Tax Avoidance, Disclosure, Litigation Risk, Reputational Costs

JEL Classification: G14, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Huesecken, Birgit and Overesch, Michael and Tassius, Alexander, Effects of Disclosing Tax Avoidance: Capital Market Reaction to LuxLeaks (February 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2848757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2848757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Chelsea Rae Austin , Ryan J. Wilson
Are Reputational Costs a Determinant of Tax Avoidance?
2013 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: Tax Avoidance in an International Setting Posted: 14 Feb 2013 Last revised: 2 Nov 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B C Ayers , C B Cloyd , J R Robinson
The Effect of Shareholder-Level Dividend Taxes on Stock Prices: Evidence from the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 933 - 947 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A M Bauer , K J Klassen
Assessing the Market Reaction to Unfavorable Tax Settlements: Using Textual Analysis to Categorize Ambiguous Disclosure Posted: 2017
Load more
11 Citations
Fabian Schmal , Katharina Schulte Sasse , Christoph Watrin
Trouble in Paradise? Disclosure After Tax Haven Leaks
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 706 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Zheng Chris Cao , Chris Jones , Yama Temouri
Tax Havens and Tourism: The Impact of the Panama Papers and the Crowding Out of Tourism by Financial Services
Journal of Travel Research , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 841 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Lisa De Simone , Marcel Olbert
Real Effects of Private Country-by-Country Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 201 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Michael Overesch
Steuervermeidung multinationaler Unternehmen
Perspektiven der Wirtschaftspolitik , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 129 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,861
RANK
29,100
11 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies