Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should We Tax the Gratuitous Transfer of Wealth?: An Introduction

Boston College Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2016

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 416

9 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2016

James R. Repetti

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: May 26, 2016

Abstract

The estate tax was enacted because of concerns about the impact of large concentrations of dynastic wealth on the political process. As discussed in this commentary, which reviews the Symposium articles by Paul Caron, David Joulfaian, and Jennifer Bird-Pollan, recent research by political scientists supports the legitimacy of these concerns. In addition, a significant body of studies suggests that inequality has a long-term negative impact on growth. Paul Caron observes in his article that progressivity in our tax system has been decreasing and that the estate tax was 60% or higher for fifty years (1934–1983), a rate much higher than the current 40%. David Joulfaian notes that the estate tax clearly contributes to the progressivity of our tax system. He finds that estate tax liability of a decedent is on average equivalent to doubling the income tax liability of decedents during the prior ten years. Jennifer Bird-Pollan explores the views on estate tax from a liberal, utilitarian, and libertarian philosophical perspective. This commentary notes some additional aspects of the estate tax that strengthen the utilitarian and liberal arguments in favor of the estate tax.

Suggested Citation:

Repetti, James R., Should We Tax the Gratuitous Transfer of Wealth?: An Introduction (May 26, 2016). Boston College Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2016, Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 416, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2848503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
See Joulfaian
, p. 855 - 56
Crossref
See Bird-Pollan
Crossref
at 871. See generally Anne L. Alstott, Equal Opportunity and Inheritance Taxation
Harv L Rev
, volume 469 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
427,404
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies