Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responses of Firms to Tax, Administrative and Accounting Rules: Evidence from Armenia

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-065

45 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016

Zareh Asatryan

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Andreas Peichl

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Mannheim - School of Economics (VWL); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; University of Essex - Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 5, 2016

Abstract

Using panel data on the full population of corporate tax returns of Armenian firms, we study the behavioral response of firms to three size-dependent regulations. We find: i) a strong response to an accounting notch where International Financial Reporting Standards become mandatory; ii) a moderate response to an administrative notch below which the frequency of filing and paying taxes declines from monthly to quarterly; and iii) no response to a tax notch created by the registration threshold of the value added tax. Exploiting tax audits, we provide evidence suggesting that income under-reporting drives the bunching response of firms by between 60 and 100 percent. Additional evidence suggests that firms respond to tax audits by compensating every additional dollar of audit driven increase in reported income by a 0.7-0.8 dollar increase in reported deductions.

Keywords: Small and medium enterprises, size-dependent regulation, value added tax, tax administration, tax accounting, tax evasion

JEL Classification: H25, H26, O12

Suggested Citation:

Asatryan, Zareh and Peichl, Andreas, Responses of Firms to Tax, Administrative and Accounting Rules: Evidence from Armenia (October 5, 2016). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 16-065, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: Lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Miguel Almunia , David Lopez Rodriguez
Heterogeneous Responses to Effective Tax Enforcement: Evidence from Spanish Firms
Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 1419 Pages: 61 Posted: 26 Jul 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 607 - 636 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N T Artavanis , A Morse , M Tsoutsoura
Measuring income tax evasion using bank credit: Evidence from Greece
Quarterly Journal of Economics forthcoming Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,881
RANK
149,472
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies