Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Up-C Revolution

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-40

38 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2016 Last revised: 13 Nov 2016

Gregg D. Polsky

University of Georgia School of Law

Adam H. Rosenzweig

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: October 13, 2016

Abstract

Over the past few years, a revolutionary new tax structure, known as the Up-C, has become increasingly popular, particularly in instances where an LLC is being taken public. In such an Up-C IPO, a newly formed C corporation is placed on top of the existing LLC, which continues to operate the business. Shares of the C corporation are sold to new investors, and the proceeds are used by the C corporation to buy an interest in the LLC. Meanwhile, the legacy owners of the LLC (typically, founders and private investment funds) retain their interests in the LLC, while receiving exchange rights that allow them to swap their LLC interests for equivalent-value shares of the C corporation. In addition, the legacy owners often receive the benefit of tax receivables agreements (TRAs), which provide that the owners will receive a specified percentage (usually 85 percent) of the tax benefits to the C corporation resulting from future exchanges. In combination, these features seem to provide a near-nirvana of tax efficiency. It is therefore unsurprising that the popularity of Up-Cs is growing at an exponential rate.

Nevertheless, the Up-C has received very little attention in the academic literature. This paper endeavors to fill this void. It describes the complicated Up-C IPO structure (and its frequent complement, TRAs) in detail and discusses their many attractive tax features. While Up-Cs and TRAs have faced skepticism from some quarters, the paper explains that there appears to be nothing particularly nefarious about the use of Up-Cs or TRAs per se, at least from a tax policy perspective. In addition, the paper discusses some of the significant implications of the Up-C revolution, including choice-of-entity and international tax implications. We believe that ultimately the Up-C revolution will finally fulfill predictions that the advent of the LLC would fundamentally alter the landscape of business taxation in the United States, not by replacing corporations with LLCs but instead by combining the best features of both entities into a single dominant structure.

Keywords: Up-C structure, initial public offering, tax receivables agreement, IPO, TRA, stepped up basis, choice of entity

Suggested Citation:

Polsky, Gregg D. and Rosenzweig, Adam H., The Up-C Revolution (October 13, 2016). University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851872 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2851872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Myth #1: TRAs and Up-Cs Are Synonymous 64
See Hart Outline supra note , volume 3
Kimberly S See Generally Blanchard
Taxman Cometh, The
Bus. L. Today , volume 6 Posted: 1996
See Paul and Sabbah supra note [3]; see also LeClaire and Weber supra note , volume 6
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
836
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,987
RANK
67,027
4 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies