Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Social Capital Matter in Corporate Decisions? Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2016 Last revised: 30 Dec 2016

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Chun Keung (Stan) Hoi

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2016

Abstract

We investigate whether the levels of social capital in US counties, as captured by strength of civic norms and density of social networks in the counties, are systematically related to tax avoidance activities of corporations with headquarters located in the counties. We find strong negative associations between social capital and corporate tax avoidance, as captured by effective tax rates and book-tax differences. These results are incremental to the effects of local religiosity and firm culture toward socially-irresponsible activities, are robust to using organ donation as an alternative social capital proxy and fixed effect regressions, and extend to aggressive tax avoidance activities including the probability of tax sheltering and the use of off-shore tax-haven subsidiaries and uncertain tax positions. Additionally, we find corroborating evidence using firms involved in a social-capital-changing headquarter relocation. We conclude that social capital surrounding corporate headquarters provides environmental influences constraining corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Tax aggressiveness, Social capital, Social norm, Social network

JEL Classification: H26, M41, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Hoi, Chun Keung (Stan) and Wu, Qiang and Zhang, Hao, Does Social Capital Matter in Corporate Decisions? Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance (October 14, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
I Hasan , C K Hoi , Q Wu , And H Zhang
Social Capital and Debt Contracting: Evidence from Bank Loans and Public Bonds
Jouranl of Financial and Quantitative Analysis Posted: 2016
G Hilary , K Hui
Does Religion Matter in Corporate Decision Making in America?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 93 , p. 455 - 473 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T Higgins
Self-Discrepancy: A Theory Relating Self and Affect
Psychological Review , volume 94 , p. 319 - 340 Posted: 1987
Crossref
C K Hoi , Q Wu , H Zhang
Is Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Associated with Tax Avoidance? Evidence from Irresponsible CSR Activities
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 2025 - 2059 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
665
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,388
RANK
61,229
104 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies