Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law and Technology Change

in Roger Brownsword, Eloise Scotford & Karen Yeung, eds., Oxford Handbook of the Law and Regulation of Technology (University of Oxford Press, 2017 Forthcoming)

Queen's University Legal Research Paper No. 078

25 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2016

Arthur J. Cockfield

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Writings on tax law and technology change often investigate three discrete but related questions: (1) how does tax law react to technology change; (2) how does tax law provoke technology change; and (3) how does tax law seek to preserve traditional interests (such as revenue collection) in light of technology change. In addition, observers sometimes raise concerns that the interaction of technology change and tax law can have a substantive impact on individuals, communities and/or national interests that may differ from the technology’s intended use (for example, automatic tax collection mechanisms may harm taxpayer privacy). The chapter reviews these writings and distills guiding principles for optimal tax law and policy in light of technology change.

Keywords: tax law, technology change, cyberlaw, electronic commerce, cross-border tax information exchange, research and development

Suggested Citation:

Cockfield, Arthur, Tax Law and Technology Change (2016). in Roger Brownsword, Eloise Scotford & Karen Yeung, eds., Oxford Handbook of the Law and Regulation of Technology (University of Oxford Press, 2017 Forthcoming), Queen's University Legal Research Paper No. 078, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2853670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2853670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
H Abrams , Doernberg
How Electronic Commerce Works' (1997) 14 Tax Notes International 1573
J Alm , Melnik
Do Ebay Sellers Comply with State Sales Taxes?' (2010) 63
National Tax Journal , volume 215
Crossref
M Ambrosanio , M Caroppo
Eliminating Harmful Tax Practices in Tax Havens: Defensive Measures by Major EU Countries and Tax Haven Reforms Posted: 2005
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 685
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
804
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,075
RANK
70,542
2 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies