Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Impact of Commodity Transaction Tax on Futures Contracts

43 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2016

Diganta Mukherjee

Indian Statistical Institute

Date Written: October 17, 2016

Abstract

The commodity futures market is a home-grown economic institution with a perceptible impact on its stakeholders and value chain players. The introduction of the Commodity futures in India was made with the dual purpose of promoting price discovery and enhancing risk management. Hence, there is a case for policy push for further development of this market, so that its beneficial effects can be spread across many more potential market participants. As the size and the multiplier effect of the commodity derivatives market in India is still quite small by international standards, if the market is to be given a fillip for growth, the policies should be actively revenue positive. This paper analyses the impact of the Commodity Transaction Tax on the health of the Commodity Futures Market using very detailed data from the MCX. The analysis is done, in terms of four major commodities: Gold, Silver, Copper and CPO, from the perspective of (i) Turnover (both average and volatility), (ii) comparison of trading cost (both with leading international commodity futures markets as well as the securities market in India), (iii) the Bid-Ask spread as an indicator of the depth of the market, (iv) impact costs of trading, (v) tax revenue. It is obvious that the introduction of CTT has adversely impacted the market on all counts, with the impact being of such a magnitude that it is extremely unlikely that market will recover to its original position. It calls for an urgent relook at the system if the health of the market is to be restored.

Suggested Citation:

Mukherjee, Diganta, Economic Impact of Commodity Transaction Tax on Futures Contracts (October 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2853337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2853337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Y Campbell , K A Froot
International Experiences with Securities Transaction Taxes Posted: 1993-12
Crossref
Neha Malik
Securities Transaction Tax: Case study of India, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations Posted: 2014-04
Saon Ray , Neha Malik
Impact of Transaction Taxes on Commodity Derivatives Trading in India, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations Posted: 2014-03
T Matheson
Taxing Financial Transactions: Issues and Evidence
Pavaskar and Ghosh, Commodity Transaction Tax: A Recipe for Disaster, Economic & Political Weekly , p. 17 - 20 Posted: 2008-09-27
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Sanjay Sehgal , Muneesh Kumar , Tarunika Agrawal
Should CTT Be Retained or Removed in India? An Empirical Analysis Based on Economic Consequences and Market Micro-Structure Impacts
41 Pages · Posted: 25 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 93
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muneesh Kumar , Tarunika Jain Agrawal , Srishti Sehgal
Domestic and International Information Linkages for Indian Commodities Market in the Pre- and Post-CTT Periods
Metamorphosis: A Journal of Management Research , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 75 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
511,635
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies