Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Tax Return Preparation

58 Boston College Law Review 151 (2017)

UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2854186

55 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2016 Last revised: 1 Mar 2017

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Date Written: October 18, 2016

Abstract

Annually, the U.S. government collects nearly $3 trillion of income and employment taxes. With respect to these collections, Form 1040 (U.S. Individual Income Tax Return) seeks to ensure taxpayer accuracy. Currently, two sets of players dominate the Form 1040 preparation and submission process: tax return preparers and tax return preparation software companies. The former guides taxpayers through the entire tax return preparation and submission process, and the latter provides taxpayers with the necessary tools to complete and submit tax returns themselves. Tax return preparers and tax software companies thus stand as vital intermediaries between the government and taxpayers. Despite the key role that tax return submission plays in government function, Congress exercises virtually no oversight over the process. Currently, regardless of education, knowledge, or experience, any person can prepare tax returns for compensation; similarly, almost no checks exist to ensure the substantive accuracy of tax returns prepared with tax software. As a result of these shortcomings, taxpayers file millions of flawed tax returns each year. Faulty returns shortchange the government of necessary revenue, deprive some taxpayers of crucial government benefits, and leave others liable for back taxes and penalties. This Article is the first to propose comprehensive tax return preparation process reform. It urges Congress to regulate both tax return preparers and tax preparation software companies. Adoption of one or more of the proposed reforms should lead to more accurate tax returns, protect taxpayers, and ensure a fairer and more efficient tax system.

Keywords: Taxation, tax return preparers, tax software, tax compliance, behavioral law and economics, tax policy

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H21, H24, H26, H29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay and Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney, Regulating Tax Return Preparation (October 18, 2016). 58 Boston College Law Review 151 (2017), UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2854186, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2854186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
U S Gov&apos;t Accountability , Office , Paid Gao-06-563t , Tax , Prepar-Ers
A LIMITED STUDY Posted: 2006
See Generally Olson
See IRS Launches Tax Return Preparer Review; Recommendations to Improve Compliance Expected by Year End Posted: 2009-06-04
Regulations Governing Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service, 76 Fed. Reg , volume 33 Posted: 2014-06-12
Load more
1 Citations
Robert J. Walsh
An History of US Tax Code Complexity within Computer-Based Return Preparation
Accounting & Taxation, v. 11 (1) p. 47-57 · 11 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 117
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,726
RANK
170,582
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of North Carolina Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies