Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Cost of Debt: The Case for Loan-specific Risk Mitigation and Public Debt Financing

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 49, 2018

Posted: 24 Oct 2016 Last revised: 10 Aug 2020

Adnan Anil Isin

University of Exeter

Date Written: December 20, 2016

Abstract

Examining the syndicate loans market for publicly traded U.S. firms I show that tax avoidance is positively related to loan spreads. Importantly, however, I document that the positive link between tax avoidance and loan spreads is largely eliminated for loans with effective risk mitigating mechanisms. In particular, tax-specific premiums disappear when lenders either contractually align borrowers’ interests with theirs’ via performance-sensitive provisions, diversify away loan-specific risks via lead syndicate formation or transfer loan-specific risks back to the financial system via credit default swap contracts. Moreover, tax risk is not priced in for loans with significant institutional investor participation. Finally, I show that simultaneous access to private and public debt financing, which reflects greater firm-level financial flexibility and fewer hold-up problems, largely mitigates agency risks associated with all forms of tax avoidance. These syndicate-level risk-mitigating measures work jointly well and are more effective, ex-ante, at moderating tax-specific risks in comparison to covenant-based monitoring structures alone. These results help identify channels through which firms can mitigate non-tax costs associated with tax avoidance and hence, effectively pursue strategies that persistently reduce their corporate tax burden without incurring material agency costs.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Cost of debt, Agency costs, Contract design, Financial constraints, Information asymmetries

JEL Classification: G21, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Isin, Adnan Anil, Tax Avoidance and Cost of Debt: The Case for Loan-specific Risk Mitigation and Public Debt Financing (December 20, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 49, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2856473
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies