Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer-Supplier Relationships and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016

Ling Cen

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: September 25, 2016

Abstract

We investigate whether firms in close customer-supplier relationships are better able to identify and implement tax avoidance strategies via supply chains. Consistent with our prediction, we find that both principal customers and their dependent suppliers avoid more taxes than other firms. Further analysis suggests that principal customers and dependent suppliers likely engage in tax strategies involving shifting profits to tax haven subsidiaries. Moreover, tax benefits appear to explain both principal customer firms’ and dependent supplier firms’ organizational decisions. Overall, our study provides evidence of the importance of tax avoidance as a source of gains from these relationships.

Keywords: tax avoidance, customers, suppliers, industrial organization, supply chain

JEL Classification: H25, H26, L14

Suggested Citation:

Cen, Ling and Maydew, Edward L. and Zhang, Liandong and Zuo, Luo, Customer-Supplier Relationships and Corporate Tax Avoidance (September 25, 2016). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2857687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
The three parties in the race to the bottom: Host countries, home countries and multinational corporations
Florida Tax Review , volume 7 , p. 137 - 209 Posted: 2005
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
The credibility revolution in empirical economics: How better research design is taking the con out of econometrics
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 24 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Van Binsbergen , J Graham , J Yang
The cost of debt
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 2089 - 2136 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
672
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,773
RANK
89,184
124 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies