Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing Risk with the Government: How Taxes Affect Corporate Risk Taking

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016 Last revised: 1 Jan 2017

Alexander Ljungqvist

Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Swedish House of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 6, 2016

Abstract

Using 113 staggered changes in corporate income tax rates across U.S. states, we provide evidence on how taxes affect corporate risk-taking decisions. Higher taxes reduce expected profits more for risky projects than for safe ones, as the government shares in a firm’s upside but not in its downside. Consistent with this prediction, we find that risk taking is sensitive to taxes, albeit asymmetrically: the average firm reduces risk in response to a tax increase (primarily by changing its operating cycle and reducing R&D risk) but does not respond to a tax cut. We trace the asymmetry back to constraints on risk taking imposed by creditors. Finally, tax loss-offset rules moderate firms’ sensitivity to taxes by allowing firms to partly share downside risk with the government.

Keywords: Risk taking, corporate taxes

JEL Classification: G32, H32

Suggested Citation:

Ljungqvist, Alexander and Ljungqvist, Alexander and Zhang, Liandong and Zuo, Luo, Sharing Risk with the Government: How Taxes Affect Corporate Risk Taking (December 6, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2857688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
C Leuz , P D Wysocki
The economics of disclosure and financial reporting regulation: Evidence and suggestions for future research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 525 - 622 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Alexander Ljungqvist , Alexander Ljungqvist , Michael Smolyansky
To Cut or Not to Cut? On the Impact of Corporate Taxes on Employment and Income
Pages: 58 Posted: 11 Dec 2014 Last revised: 8 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Lundholm , R Sloan
Equity valuation and analysis with eVal Posted: 2012
G N Mandelker , S G Rhee
The impact of the degrees of operating and financial leverage on systematic risk of common stock
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 19 , p. 45 - 57 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,131
RANK
32,983
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies