Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Territorial Tax System Reform and the Financial Behavior of Multinational Firms

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-46

39 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016

Jing Xing

Antai College of Economics & Management, Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Stephen R. Bond

Nuffield College; Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS)

Giorgia Maffini

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

We investigate whether the move from the worldwide tax system to the territorial tax system in Japan in 2009 affects the financial behavior of overseas affiliates of Japanese multinational companies. The reform substantially reduces the tax costs of profit repatriation in the form of dividends for Japanese overseas affiliates. We use this reform as a quasi-natural experiment to investigate whether and how the tax system affects multinationals’ cash holding and financing policies. Findings from our study sheds some light on possible outcomes of similar tax reforms in countries such as the United States. Based on a sample of Japanese overseas affiliates located in both Europe and Asia, we do not find a robust link between the tax costs of dividend repatriation and the cash-asset ratio for Japanese overseas affiliates before the territorial tax system reform. Moreover, we do not find that Japanese overseas affiliates reduced their cash-holdings since the territorial tax reform, no matter whether they are located in countries with high tax costs of repatriation or in countries with low tax costs of repatriation. We further conduct Difference-in-Differences analysis to compare Japanese overseas affiliates with similar US overseas affiliates located in the same host countries. The comparison between the Japanese and US overseas affiliates are reasonable as the tax system on foreign profits were similar in the two countries before Japan moved to the territorial tax system. We do not find significant difference in the cash-holding patterns and capital structures between Japanese and similar US overseas affiliates. While the territorial tax system reform did not change multinationals’ financial behavior during our sample period, the reform can enhance the competitiveness of Japanese firms in foreign countries by reducing their tax burden of repatriation.

Suggested Citation:

Xing, Jing and Bond, Stephen R. and Maffini, Giorgia, Territorial Tax System Reform and the Financial Behavior of Multinational Firms (October 1, 2016). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2858438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Ning Ji
Exploration of financial tax system in the context of big data
Applied Mathematics and Nonlinear Sciences , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,352
RANK
388,855
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies