Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Auditor Responses to Tax Risk

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Oct 2016 Last revised: 11 Sep 2019

John L. Abernathy

Kennesaw State University

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

Both practitioners and academics are increasingly focusing their attention on the riskiness of firms’ tax planning activities. In this study, we examine how external auditors respond to tax risk, measured using the volatility of firms’ annual cash and GAAP effective tax rates. Consistent with the notion that tax risk represents a source of engagement risk that is priced by external auditors, we first document a positive association between audit fees and tax risk incremental to fee premiums arising from tax aggressiveness. We also find that knowledge spillover benefits related to the provision of tax nonaudit services moderate this positive association. In supplemental tests, we provide evidence on additional auditor responses to tax risk. In particular, we document that tax risk is positively associated with both audit report lag and the likelihood of the auditor reporting a tax-related material weakness in the client's internal controls. Our findings add to the growing literature at the intersection of corporate taxation and auditing, and to the literature distinguishing between the level and riskiness of firms’ tax avoidance strategies.

Keywords: Audit Fees, Tax Risk, Effective Tax Rates, Auditor-Provided Tax Services, Nonaudit Services

JEL Classification: H25, M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abernathy, John L. and Finley, Andrew and Rapley, Eric T. and Stekelberg, James, External Auditor Responses to Tax Risk (September 10, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2859140 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2859140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Herita T. Akamah , Thomas C. Omer , Sydney Qing Shu
Financial Constraints and Future Tax Outcome Volatility
Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting · 44 Pages · Posted: 4 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 25 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 324
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,553
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies