Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Recent Tax Changes on Tax Complexity and Compliance Costs: The Tax Practitioners’ Perspective

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31(3), 2016

25 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2016

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Philip Lignier

University of Tasmania

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 26, 2016

Abstract

This article reports the results of an online survey of Australian tax practitioners conducted in May 2014. The purpose of the survey was to gain further insight into how tax changes impact on the role of tax practitioners in assisting their clients to comply with tax obligations (including tax planning). The survey was also designed to identify the possible managerial benefits that business taxpayers may derive from their relationship with a tax practitioner. This article focuses only on the first objective of the survey.

The online survey attracted 241 respondents and analysis of the data obtained reveals a number of key findings, some of which are confirmatory. First, respondents see tax planning as being almost as important as tax compliance in their role as tax practitioners. As might be expected, the perceived importance of tax planning becomes stronger as firm size becomes larger. Second, respondents consider that the frequent changes to tax rules over the previous five‑year period had an adverse impact on their practice and the nature of the tax services provided to their clients. They also perceive those frequent changes as a main driver of tax complexity. Third, respondents claim that they incur non‑trivial annual costs of coping with tax changes and can ultimately pass on only a small proportion of these costs to their clients. Fourth, respondents exhibit a largely negative view about the impact of cumulative tax changes over the previous five‑year period on their ability to advise clients with certainty, particularly in relation to tax planning; and on the time and stress associated with tax return preparation.

Suggested Citation:

Tran-Nam, Binh and Lignier, Philip and Evans, Christopher Charles, The Impact of Recent Tax Changes on Tax Complexity and Compliance Costs: The Tax Practitioners’ Perspective (May 26, 2016). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31(3), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862382
Purchase - $45
0 References
1 Citations
Christopher Charles Evans , Riel Franzsen , Elizabeth A. Stack
Tax Simplification, An African Perspective
Pretoria University Law Press 2019 · 371 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 258
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies