Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Deductibility Affect Goodwill Impairment Decisions?

The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 45, No. 2, Fall 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-2021-004

Posted: 1 Nov 2016 Last revised: 26 Sep 2023

Sarah Khalil

University of Connecticut

Miles A. Romney

Florida State University - College of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 19, 2022

Abstract

Using a setting with tax-deductible goodwill impairments, we examine how tax deductibility affects impairment decisions. Goodwill impairments are costly to firms, and managers generally attempt to avoid recording impairments. However, we propose that tax deductibility reduces the net cost of impairment, increasing the likelihood of impairment. Results indicate that tax deductibility increases impairment likelihood, especially when capital market pressure is high, consistent with tax deductibility reducing the net cost of impairments (i.e., partially offsetting high costs of impairment). We rule out known plausible non-tax explanations for these effects. Overall, results suggest that taxation is an important, previously overlooked determinant of economically important goodwill impairments.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Goodwill Impairments, Tax Havens

JEL Classification: F23, G32, H20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khalil, Sarah and Romney, Miles A. and Utke, Steven, Does Tax Deductibility Affect Goodwill Impairment Decisions? (July 19, 2022). The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 45, No. 2, Fall 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-2021-004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2862196
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,320
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies