Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Shifting and Tax - Rate Uncertainty

Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2016 Last revised: 7 Jan 2020

Manthos D. Delis

Audencia Business School

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Panagiotis Karavitis

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: September 19, 2019

Abstract

Using firm-level data for 1,084 parent firms in 24 countries and for 9,497 subsidiaries in 54 countries, we show that tax-motivated profit shifting is larger among subsidiaries in countries that have stable corporate tax rates over time. Our findings further suggest that firms move away from transfer pricing and toward intragroup debt shifting that has lower adjustment costs. Our results are robust to several identification methods and respecifications, and they highlight the important role of tax-rate uncertainty in the profit-shifting decision while pointing to an adjustment away from more costly transfer pricing and toward debt shifting.

Keywords: international taxation, profit-shifting, multinational firms, macroeconomic and fiscal risk

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H32, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Delis, Manthos D. and Hasan, Iftekhar and Karavitis, Panagiotis, Profit Shifting and Tax - Rate Uncertainty (September 19, 2019). Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862452 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2862452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
***
***
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,049
RANK
279,629
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies