Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
E‑Filing and Compliance Risk: Evidence from Australian Personal Income Tax Deductions

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31(3), 2016

26 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2016

Neil Warren

UNSW Business School

Date Written: August 9, 2016

Abstract

Two major advances in personal income tax administration over recent decades are the pre‑filling of tax returns and the electronic lodgement of those returns. However, pre‑filling has been largely restricted to income and information reported in previous years, not current year costs incurred in generating taxable income (or deductions). This has not constrained national revenue bodies from putting in place incentives for greater take‑up of e‑filing as in the case of Australia where with electronically filed personal tax returns, the ATO has a general commitment to make any refunds in 12 days or less while with paper returns, it is 50 days. What has not been adequately investigated is whether incentivising e‑filing by self‑preparers, at a time when pre‑filling is focussed mostly on income with less on deductions, poses a potential compliance risk. This paper investigates this issue in the case of the Australian personal income taxpayers over the period 2003–04 to 2013–14 and whether there is a distinct change in the deductions claim behaviour of those self‑preparers lodging electronically via e‑tax and myTax compared to those lodging paper returns or via tax agents. The paper finds that over the 10‑year period studied, there were distinct changes in the work‑related expense deduction claims behaviour of self‑preparers relative to those using a tax agent, with e‑tax self‑preparers having a significantly increased incidence of claims, even though the average level of relative claim declined. In an environment with incentives for electronic lodgement and limited pre‑filling of deductions, it is concluded that this differential behaviour warrants further study from both a compliance risk perspective as well as the appropriateness of the current policy treatment of deductions.

Suggested Citation:

Warren, Neil, E‑Filing and Compliance Risk: Evidence from Australian Personal Income Tax Deductions (August 9, 2016). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 31(3), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862389
Purchase - $45
0 References
4 Citations
Thomas Hoppe
Tax Complexity in Australia – A Survey-Based Comparison to the OECD Average
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 14 · 29 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2020 · Last revised: 4 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Neil Warren , Richard Highfield
Mind the (Tax) Gap! It is Bigger and More Complex than You Think
UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Neil Warren , Richard Highfield
How Can Tax Gap Inform Tax Policy and Administration? A Case Study of Australia’s Individuals Income Tax
UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 110
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Siamand Hesami , Hatice P. Jenkins , Glenn P. Jenkins
Emerging Digital Technologies to Improve Tax Compliance and Administration Efficiency: A Systematic Literature Review
38 Pages · Posted: 5 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 351
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies