Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation and Taxation at Start-Up Firms

Tax Law Review, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2016

32 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2016

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Eric J. Allen

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Date Written: November 2, 2016

Abstract

This Article considers capital-constrained start-up firms and conventional income tax breaks meant to encourage innovation. Some argue that these tax breaks provide benefits to encourage innovation that are more certain and earlier in time compared to other possible government policies, such as patent protection. But start-up firms generally cannot use income tax breaks currently, because such firms are not profitable for years after their founding. Instead, investment in income tax planning reduces the funds available to a capital-constrained start-up firm for business investment. This reduces the time a firm has to reach its next stage of success, such as securing external financing.

To explore the experience of capital-constrained start-up firms and tax breaks for innovation, we provide and illustrate a model based on empirical data. We show that, depending on factors including endowment and cash burn rate, a start-up firm would rationally choose not to invest even modest amounts in tax planning. Our model suggests that conventionally designed tax policies are unlikely to achieve the goal of encouraging innovation at start-up firms, particularly in the earliest stages of such firms’ existence.

Keywords: entrepreneurship, innovation, tax break, start-up, startup, patent box, research and development

JEL Classification: K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C. and Allen, Eric J., Innovation and Taxation at Start-Up Firms (November 2, 2016). Tax Law Review, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2863161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
See Morse
, volume 28
Crossref
It is roughly equivalent to the net wealth of a 50th percentile U.S. household according to Federal Reserve survey data
Changes in U.S. Family Finances from 2010 to 2013: Evidence from the Survey of Consumer Finances , volume 100 Posted: 2014
The difference between the mean and the median is driven by some very high outliers, as the maximum investment reported is $5.9 billion. See VentureXpert, note 57. 86 The venture fund industry has proven itself capable of legal innovation in other contexts
One million dollars is roughly equivalent to the net wealth of a 90th percentile U.S. household according to Federal Reserve survey data. Id. 77 , volume 133 , p. 160 - 70 Posted: 2014
Ronald J. Gilson
Engineering a Venture Capital Market: Lessons from the American Experience
Stanford Law Review, Vol. 55, April 2003 Pages: 52 Posted: 4 Dec 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,629
RANK
150,696
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies