Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two Cheers for the Foreign Tax Credit, Even in the BEPS Era

91 Tulane L. Rev. 1 (2016)

55 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2016 Last revised: 25 Apr 2017

J. Clifton Fleming

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Robert J. Peroni

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

Reform of the U.S. international income taxation system has been a hotly debated topic for many years. The principal competing alternatives are a territorial or exemption system and a worldwide system. For reasons summarized in this article, we favor worldwide taxation if it is real worldwide taxation – i.e., a non-deferred U.S. tax is imposed on all foreign income of U.S. residents at the time the income in earned. This approach is not acceptable, however, unless the resulting double taxation is alleviated. The longstanding U.S. approach for handling the international double taxation problem is a foreign tax credit limited to the U.S. levy on the taxpayer’s foreign income. Indeed, the foreign tax credit is an essential element of the case for worldwide taxation. Moreover, territorial systems often apply worldwide taxation with a foreign tax credit to all income of resident individuals plus the passive income and tax haven income of resident corporations. Thus, the foreign tax credit is actually an important feature of many territorial systems.

The foreign tax credit has, however, been subjected to sharp criticisms and Professor Daniel Shaviro has recently proposed replacing the credit with a combination of a deduction for foreign taxes and a reduced U.S. tax rate on foreign income. In this article, we respond to the criticisms and argue that the foreign tax credit is a robust and effective device. Furthermore, we respectfully explain why Professor Shaviro’s proposal is not an adequate substitute. We also explore an overlooked aspect of the foreign tax credit – its role as an allocator of the international tax base between residence and source countries – and we explain the credit’s effectiveness in carrying out this role. Nevertheless, we point out that the credit merits only two cheers because it goes beyond the requirements of the ability-to-pay principle that underlies use of an income base for imposing tax (instead of a consumption base). On balance, however, the credit is the preferred approach for mitigating international double taxation of income.

Suggested Citation:

Fleming, J. Clifton and Peroni, Robert Joseph and Shay, Stephen E., Two Cheers for the Foreign Tax Credit, Even in the BEPS Era (November 1, 2016). 91 Tulane L. Rev. 1 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2870713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2870713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Joint Comm , Alternative Policies
20 (quoting Robert E. Lipsey, Outward Direct Investment and the , volume 38 Posted: 1994
Grubert See
The positive effects implied by the 'low tax burdens on foreign income are good for domestic investment' argument and the negative effects implied by the 'export of jobs' argument seem to cancel."); see also Martin A Posted: 2010
MNCs' robust overseas hiring practices
Crossref
U S Scott Thurm , J Wall St
Firms Add Jobs, But Mostly Overseas Posted: 2012-04-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,206
RANK
259,422
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies