Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Remote Sales in the Digital Age: A Global Perspective

65 American University Law Review 1195 (2016).

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-42

Dean Rusk International Law Center Research Paper No. 2016-19

46 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2016

Walter Hellerstein

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: November 29, 2016

Abstract

This Article addresses three fundamental questions raised by the taxation of remote sales in the digital age from a global perspective, but focuses on the implications, if any, of the answers to these questions in the global context for the U.S. subnational retail sales tax. First, should remote sales be taxed under a consumption tax? Second, if the answer to the first question is “yes,” where should such sales be taxed? Third, how can remote sales be taxed effectively under a consumption tax in the digital age?

Keywords: tax law, internet, remote sales, international tax, state and local taxation, sales tax, consumption tax

JEL Classification: k33, k34

Suggested Citation:

Hellerstein, Walter, Taxing Remote Sales in the Digital Age: A Global Perspective (November 29, 2016). 65 American University Law Review 1195 (2016)., University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-42, Dean Rusk International Law Center Research Paper No. 2016-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
352,454
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies