Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Holistic Approach for Tackling Undeclared Work

Background Paper for the European Platform on Tackling Undeclared Work Seminar, Brussels, 2nd December 2016

15 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2016

Colin Williams

University of Sheffield - School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2, 2016

Abstract

What is a holistic approach to tackling undeclared work? A holistic policy approach towards tackling the undeclared economy uses in a strategic and coordinated manner the full range of both the direct and indirect policy approaches and measures available to increase the power of, and trust in, authorities respectively.

Direct approaches reduce the costs and increase the benefits of operating on a declared basis, and increase the costs and reduce the benefits of operating undeclared. To do this, it uses:

• Deterrence measures that detect and punish participation in undeclared work firstly, by increasing the perceived or actual likelihood of detection and/or secondly, by raising the penalties and sanctions for those caught, and

• Incentive measures that make it easier to undertake, and reward, participation in declared work. These include:

o Preventative measures that encourage citizens and businesses to not engage in the undeclared economy (e.g., by simplifying compliance, using direct and indirect tax incentives to make it beneficial to operate on a declared basis, and providing support and advice about how to start-up legitimately), and o Curative measures that incentivise citizens and businesses to make the transition to the declared realm. These can be either (a) supply-side incentives targeting businesses and workers in the undeclared economy or (b) demand-side incentives targeting their customers with rewards for using declared goods and services.

Indirect approaches, meanwhile, recognise that citizens and businesses are not just rational economic actors (purely calculating the costs and benefits). They are also social actors who engage in undeclared work when formal institutional failings lead to them adopting norms and beliefs regarding participation in undeclared work that do not align with the laws and regulations. To align them, therefore, indirect policy approaches either:

• Change the norms, values and beliefs regarding participation in undeclared work, so that these are in symmetry with the laws and regulations (e.g., using awareness raising campaigns and educational initiatives), and/or

• Change the formal institutional imperfections that lead to a lack of alignment between the norms, values and beliefs of the population, and the laws and regulations. This can involve either:

o Changing the internal processes of formal institutions by improving procedural and distributive fairness and justice, so as to improve trust in government, and/or

o Changing the products of formal institutions by pursuing wider economic and social measures associated with lower levels of undeclared work (e.g., increased social expenditure levels, more effective social transfers, active labour market policies targeted at vulnerable groups, greater equality).

To effectively tackle undeclared work, the emerging evidence is that both direct and indirect measures should be used. How to combine and sequence these measures, however, is being debated. Two approaches are being discussed: responsive regulation sequences them by using indirect measures first, then incentives, and deterrents only for those still failing to comply; and the slippery slope framework asserts that the most effective approach is to concurrently improve both the power of authorities using direct measures (i.e., enforced compliance) as well as trust in authorities using indirect measures (i.e., voluntary cooperation). This background paper thus provides a common understanding for Platform members to discuss how to tackle undeclared work and encourages reflection on the approaches and measures currently being pursued in their own Member State.

Keywords: Informal Economy, Informal Sector, Shadow Economy, Labor Economics, Public Sector Economics

JEL Classification: H26, J46, J48, K34, K42, O17, P37

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Colin, Developing a Holistic Approach for Tackling Undeclared Work (December 2, 2016). Background Paper for the European Platform on Tackling Undeclared Work Seminar, Brussels, 2nd December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2879845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 361 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 51 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Alm , E Kirchler , M Muelhbacher , K Gangil , E Hofmann , C Logler , M Pollai
Rethinking the research paradigms for analyzing tax compliance behavior
CESifo forum , volume 10 , p. 33 - 40 Posted: 2012
W J Baumol , A Blinder
Macroeconomics: principles and policy Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
292,525
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Private Law - Labor & Employment Law eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies