Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU Apple Case: Who Has a Dog in the Fight?

Tax Notes, Vol. 154, No. 2, 2017

Tax Notes International, Vol. 85, No. 2, 2017

BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-04

8 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017 Last revised: 21 Feb 2017

J. Clifton Fleming

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Date Written: January 9, 2017

Abstract

This is a reductionist article. It provides a simplified diagram and explanation of Apple's foreign tax planning that eliminates complexities not necessary to an understanding of either the relevant EU or U.S. tax issues. The primary focus of the article is identification of the stakeholders in the controversy over the EU Commission's Apple decision, analysis of their interests, and evaluation of the impact of the Apple decision on those interests. Finally, the article explains that but for the deferral feature of U.S. international income tax law, the Apple case would not have happened.

Keywords: EU Law, Income Taxation, International Taxation, International Law

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H25, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fleming, J. Clifton, The EU Apple Case: Who Has a Dog in the Fight? (January 9, 2017). Tax Notes, Vol. 154, No. 2, 2017, Tax Notes International, Vol. 85, No. 2, 2017, BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
more Tax Notes content, please visit www.taxnotes.com
All rights reserved. Tax Analysts does not claim copyright in any public domain or third party content Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,766
RANK
148,308
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies