Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Destination-Based Cash-Flow Taxation: A Critical Appraisal

University of Toronto Law Journal, 67:3 (2017), pp 301-347

33 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2016 Last revised: 22 Jun 2017

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 19, 2016

Abstract

This article offers the first comprehensive scholarly response to proposals for destination-based, cash-flow taxation (DCFT). DCFT proposals have attracted heightened public attention in 2016 because of its incorporation into the U.S. House Republican Blueprint for tax reform and Donald Trump’s subsequent election to the White House. They also continue to fascinate tax specialists by suggesting that corporate profit can not only be taxed in countries of “source” or “residence,” but also (or even exclusively) in the countries where sales to final consumers occur. This Article clarifies the logical structure of DCFT proposals and exposes substantial gaps between their rhetoric and technical details.

I argue first that it is crucial to distinguish between two versions of the DCFT. Version 1 resembles proposals for taxing corporate income by sales-factor-only formulary apportionment. Version 2, which is what the House GOP Blueprint proposes, resembles a destination-based VAT with deductions for labor costs and refundable losses. DCFT Version 2 is merely a species of residence-based consumption taxation and, unlike Version 1, would not allocate revenue to countries of consumer residence as distinct from countries of investor residence. It thus introduces no fundamental new option into international tax design. Instead, it may create substantial trade distortions (and its loss refund feature is also unlikely to be administrable). DCFT Version 1 does present a new option for taxing corporate profit but is un-implementable. I also highlight ways in which DCFT proposals make ad hoc normative and behavioral assumptions. For example, in criticizing the traditional corporate income tax, DCFT proponents only refer to neutrality benchmarks and give no weight to distributional concerns, but when defending the advantage of the DCFT vis-à-vis the VAT, they introduce considerations of progressivity.

Finally, the Article offers a novel explanation of why it is difficult to incorporate information about consumer location into international tax design, and argues that “residence” is more promising than “destination” (when both are understood as capturing information about natural persons) for dealing with problems arising from capital mobility.

Keywords: international taxation, destination-based taxation, corporate taxation, BEPS, U.S. tax reform

JEL Classification: H25, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, Destination-Based Cash-Flow Taxation: A Critical Appraisal (December 19, 2016). University of Toronto Law Journal, 67:3 (2017), pp 301-347, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2887218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Johannes Becker , Joachim Englisch
Unilateral Introduction of Destination Based Cash Flow Taxation
17 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 182
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Henry Ordower
Uniform International Tax Collection and Distribution for Global Development, a Utopian BEPS Alternative
Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-22, Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 12, No. 2, p. 126, 2021 · 47 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 11 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tarcísio Diniz Magalhães , Allison Christians
Tributando o Superávit Cooperativo Internacional Durante e Após a Pandemia: Quatorze Maneiras (Taxing International Cooperative Surplus During and After the Pandemic: Fourteen Ways)
A Crise do Federalismo em Estado de Pandemia, v. 1 (Fernando Facury Scaff et al. eds, Letramento 2021) · 21 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Afton Titus
The Promise of Non-arm’s Length Practices: Is the Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax or Unitary Taxation the Panacea of Which Developing Countries Are in Search?
I. J. Mosquera Valderrama et al. (eds.), Taxation, International Cooperation and the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, United Nations University Series on Regionalism 19, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64857-2_2 · 18 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,454
RANK
36,057
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies