Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Other Eighty Percent: Private Investment Funds, International Tax Avoidance, and Tax-Exempt Investors

Brigham Young University Law Review, Vol. 2016, 2016

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-10

49 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2016 Last revised: 14 Feb 2017

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: December 26, 2016

Abstract

The taxation of private equity managers’ share of funds’ profits — the twenty percent “carried interest” — received much attention in academic literature and popular discourse. Much has been said and written about the fact that fund managers’ profits are taxed at preferred rates. But what about the other eighty percent of funds’ profits? This Article theorizes that the bulk of such profits are never taxed. This is a result of a combination of three factors: First, private equity, venture capital, and hedge funds (collectively, Private Investment Funds, or “PIFs”) are major actors in cross-border investment activity. This enables PIFs to take advantage of international taxation planning schemes not available in a purely domestic context. Second, PIFs are aggressive tax-planners. The Article summarizes some existing evidence that suggests that PIF-controlled multinational enterprises (“MNEs”) are more likely to engage in aggressive international tax behavior when compared with MNEs that are not PIF-controlled. The result is that PIF-controlled entities are uniquely situated to avoid tax at the source jurisdiction. Lastly, PIFs are dominated by tax-exempt investors. This enables PIF profits, which escaped source taxation, to also escape taxation at the jurisdiction of residence. The result is that most private equity gains from cross-border investment activity are taxed nowhere. The Article concludes, therefore, that PIF-controlled entities should be a target of international tax policy making. However, such policymaking must be grounded in better understanding of PIFs’ international tax behavior. This is a difficult task, since PIF operations are rarely subject to public disclosure requirements. The Article proposes opening PIF international tax planning to public scrutiny through a revision of the country-by-country reporting (CBCR) standards adopted under Action 13 of the BEPS Project. It is hoped that information garnered from such increased reporting will assist in developing anti-tax-avoidance policies that are better targeted at PIF-controlled MNEs.

Keywords: Private Equity, Venture Capital, Hedge Funds, International Taxation, Tax Avoidance, Luxleaks, BEPS, Country by Country Reporting

JEL Classification: H25, H26, K34, E22, F21, G24, O16, P45

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., The Other Eighty Percent: Private Investment Funds, International Tax Avoidance, and Tax-Exempt Investors (December 26, 2016). Brigham Young University Law Review, Vol. 2016, 2016, UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
U
The information is available on the SEC's website at the Division of Investment Management page. Full data is available beginning with the first quarter of 2013. 151 For most periods, just under seventy percent of all investors in U.S. PIFs can be reasonably classified as taxable or tax-exempt, with a reasonable level of confidence. The following investor categories are classified as taxexempt for purposes of the U.S. analysis: Pension Plans, State/Municipal Pension Plans, Non-Profits, Sovereign Wealth Funds
is derived from the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) Private Funds Statistics Reports. 149 Since 2012, private fund managers are required to report certain information to the SEC. 150 Such information includes the classes of investors in privately managed funds , volume 150 , p. 264 - 265 Posted: 2015-02-16
Eg See , Sec Exch , Comm&apos;n
The Commission began receiving Form PF filings from Large Hedge Fund Advisers in
Div. of Inv. Mgmt , volume 149 , issue 2 Posted: 2012-07
Investment income sourced in the United States is rarely taxable to foreign investors). See, Avi-Yonah, supra note 18, at 68 (discussing how little revenue is collected from foreign investment income in the United States
Most industrialized jurisdictions employ some form of territorial taxation. See Philip Dittmer, A Global Perspective On Territorial Taxation Posted: 2012
I R C
, p. 851 - 855 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,641
RANK
175,068
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies