Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings Management in Response to Tax Rate Cuts

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 28, 2017

27 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2016 Last revised: 25 Jun 2018

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

This study explores the link between earnings management and jurisdictional differences in book-tax conformity. A dataset of national reforms where the corporate tax rate is lowered is used to estimate the effect of conformity on private firm’s earnings management behavior when a specific incentive to manage earnings downward exists. Total and discretionary accruals are used to measure earnings management and a continuous measure is used to assess the level of book-tax conformity. The results suggest that changes in the statutory tax rate affect firms within jurisdictions with high book-tax conformity more than firms in jurisdictions where book and taxable income are less conformed. However, more overall earnings management is attributed to firms in the low conformity jurisdictions. With these findings, a contribution based on private firms and signed earnings management is made to the ongoing debate on the appropriate level of book-tax conformity.

Keywords: earnings management, tax incentive, tax reform, private firms, book-tax conformity

JEL Classification: M41, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Sundvik, Dennis, Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings Management in Response to Tax Rate Cuts (August 1, 2016). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 28, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
330,157
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies