Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Credits for Foreign Location Shooting of Films: No Net Benefit for Canada

Canadian Public Policy - Analyse de Politiques Vol. XXXIX, No. 3 2013, pp 451-72

44 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

John Lester

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy ; Centre for the Study of Living Standards

Date Written: June 22, 2013

Abstract

The federal and provincial governments spend almost half a billion dollars a year providing tax incentives to encourage the production of films, videos and television programs in Canada by foreign firms. Although the subsidies are successful in achieving their stated objective of increasing employment in the film industry, the increase comes at the expense of activity in other sectors. This study uses a benefit-cost framework to demonstrate that Canadians are poorer, not richer, as a result of the film tax credits. It would serve the economic interest of Canadians for the federal and provincial governments to phase out support for foreign location shooting with appropriate transitional assistance for the workers affected. While elimination by all governments would provide the largest benefits, any jurisdiction taking unilateral action would realize a net benefit.

Keywords: benefit-cost analysis, program evaluation, tax credits, subsidies, film industry

Suggested Citation:

Lester, John, Tax Credits for Foreign Location Shooting of Films: No Net Benefit for Canada (June 22, 2013). Canadian Public Policy - Analyse de Politiques Vol. XXXIX, No. 3 2013, pp 451-72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Canadian Heritage
Posted: 2010-11-16
Canadian Media Production Association Posted: 2011-11-16
Bev Dahlby
A Framework for Evaluating Provincial R&D Tax Subsidies Canadian Public Policy -Analyse de Politiques , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 45 - 58 Posted: 2005
Bev Dahlby , Ergete Ferede
The Effects of Tax Rate Changes on Tax Bases and the Marginal Cost of Public Funds for Provincial Governments Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
490,153
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies