Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why are Pyramid-Affiliated Firms More Tax Aggressive?

45 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Justin Mindzak

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics; State University of New York at Fredonia

Tao Zeng

Wilfrid Laurier University - Lazaridis School of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 8, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines why pyramid-affiliated firms are more tax aggressive than other firms. While firms in the US are generally widely held by small shareholders, many large firms in Canada belong to business groups, which are typically organized as pyramids.

This study, using Canadian listed companies for the time periods of 2010-2013, finds that firms affiliated with pyramid structures are more tax aggressive because:

(1) pyramidal groups are likely to have intra-group transactions, which enable the affiliated firms to be more tax aggressive;

(2) internal financing in pyramidal groups enables the affiliated firms to be more tax aggressive; and

(3) pyramidal groups are likely to occupy political connections, which enable the affiliated firms to be more tax aggressive.

Keywords: pyramid structure, tax aggressiveness, political connection, related party transaction, internal financing

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Mindzak, Justin and Mindzak, Justin and Zeng, Tao, Why are Pyramid-Affiliated Firms More Tax Aggressive? (January 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Aharony , J Wang , Yuan
elated arty ransactions: he " eal" Means of Earnings Management During IPO Process in China. Mimeo Posted: 2005
Najah Attig , Klaus P. Fischer , Yoser Gadhoum
On the Determinants of Pyramidal Ownership: Evidence on Dilution of Minority Interests
EFA 2004 Maastricht Meetings Paper No. 4592 Pages: 36 Posted: 26 Sep 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Najah Attig , Yoser Gadhoum
The Governance of Canadian Traded Firms: An Analysis of the Ultimate Ownership Structure
Pages: 48 Posted: 16 Oct 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,542
RANK
505,351
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies