Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Taxation and the Reallocation of Business Activity: Evidence from Establishment-Level Data

US Census Bureau Center for Economic Studies Paper No. CES-WP-17-02

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-7

79 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2017

Xavier Giroud

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Joshua D. Rauh

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Hoover Institution; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 01, 2017

Abstract

Using Census microdata on multi-state firms, we estimate the impact of state taxes on business activity. For C corporations, employment and the number of establishments have corporate tax elasticities of -0.4, and do not vary with changes in personal tax rates. Pass-through entity activities show tax elasticities of -0.2 to -0.3 with respect to personal tax rates, and are invariant with respect to corporate tax rates. Reallocation of productive resources to other states drives around half the effect. Capital shows similar patterns but is 36% less elastic than labor. The responses are strongest for firms in tradable and footloose industries.

Suggested Citation:

Giroud, Xavier and Rauh, Joshua D., State Taxation and the Reallocation of Business Activity: Evidence from Establishment-Level Data (January 01, 2017). US Census Bureau Center for Economic Studies Paper No. CES-WP-17-02, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2896896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2896896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Richard Aronson , John L Hilley
Financing State and Local Governments, Washington, DC: The Brookings Institution Posted: 1986
Pass-Through Entities and Personal Income Taxes
Baker Tilly Insights Posted: 2014-10-28
Neil Bania , Jo Anna Gray , Joe A Stone
Growth, Taxes, and Government Expenditures: Growth Hills for U.S. States
National Tax Journal , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 204 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Timothy J Bartik
Business Location Decisions in the United States: Estimates of the E¤ects of Unionization, Taxes, and Other Characteristics of States
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 22 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,948
RANK
131,274
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies