Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Referent Points and Taxpayers’ Compliance: Insights into Taxpayers’ Risk Preferences for Honest Reporting

30 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2017

Ian Burt

Niagara University

Jay K. Walker

Old Dominion University - Economics

Date Written: January 11, 2017

Abstract

Prior research (Schepanski and Shearer, 1995; Alm and Torgler, 2011) relying on prospect theory (Kahneman & Tversky, 1979) shows that taxpayers’ compliance is influenced by their perception of whether they owe more or less taxes than they anticipated: Taxpayers are more likely to cheat on their taxes when they perceive that they are in a tax “loss” position as compared to a tax “gain”. Yet what remains to be understood is what exactly constitutes the referent point that separates a tax loss from a tax gain. In an attempt to provide in-depth insight of what constitutes the referent point for taxpayers, we observe taxpayers filing their actual tax return and investigate the extent to which different proxies for the referent point used in prior literature best differentiates between taxpayers’ preference to cheat or file their taxes honestly. Our findings indicate that expected asset position is critical to influencing taxpayers’ ethical behavior. This revelation is important as it suggests that taxpayers’ perceptions influence their tendency to report honestly and comply with tax authorities. Our research is important to the tax authority for determining how to encourage voluntary tax payments, and contributes to the tax ethics literature by clarifying the point which differentiates between taxpayers’ tax gain and tax losses. and in so doing, their tendency to file their taxes honestly.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Ethics, prospect theory

Suggested Citation:

Burt, Ian and Walker, Jay K., Referent Points and Taxpayers’ Compliance: Insights into Taxpayers’ Risk Preferences for Honest Reporting (January 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2897562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D N Jackson
Jackson personality inventory-Revised Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Jetter , J K Walker
Anchoring in financial decision-making: Evidence from the field Posted: 2016
Crossref
D ; Kahneman , Straus Farrar , Giroux
Thinking, fast and slow Posted: 2011
D Kahneman , A Tversky
Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision under Risk
Econometrica , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 292 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,457
RANK
601,250
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies