Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bunching of Capital Gains Realizations

46 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2017 Last revised: 26 Jan 2017

Tim Dowd

Joint Committee on Taxation, U.S. Congress

Robert McClelland

Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center

Date Written: January 13, 2017

Abstract

We describe a simple model of taxpayer decisions to realize or delay their capital gains and losses. Investors will delay their realizations if the after tax rate of return is sufficiently high. As the holding period for the asset approaches a year and a day (after which capital gains are taxed at a lower rate), taxpayers will tend to harvest their losses and delay their gains. Next, we use a unique data set of capital gains transactions to investigate the behavior of taxpayers with respect to the preferential tax rate for long term capital gains. Our data allows us to examine the shifting of gains across time periods, but eliminates the effect of the large pool of accrued gains that enlarge previous estimates. We find strong evidence that taxpayers respond to the preferential rate by reducing the realizations of gains in the weeks leading up to the point when that rate applies. However the magnitude of the elasticities are small: We estimate a short-term gains elasticity of 0.52 and a long-term gains elasticity of 1.0. We find that high income taxpayers are more responsive with elasticities of -0.75 for short term gains and 1.5 for long term gains. We also find evidence that taxpayers minimize their tax liability by timing their gains and losses in the same week.

Keywords: Capital Gains Realizations, Tax Elasticity, Investor Behavior

JEL Classification: D14, G11, H2, H31

Suggested Citation:

Dowd, Timothy and McClelland, Robert, The Bunching of Capital Gains Realizations (January 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
475,660
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies