Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expected-Cost Analysis as a Tool for Optimizing Tax Planning and Reporting

Real Estate Taxation, Vol. 44, pg. 21, (4th Quarter 2016)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 478

53 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2017

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Ken Maeng

Independent

Date Written: January 17, 2017

Abstract

This article applies an expected-cost analysis to the type of tax-planning and reporting decisions that taxpayers often face. Expected cost considers the probability of paying an unreported tax and the amount of the possible future payment of the unreported tax. The article demonstrates that from an expected-cost standpoint, financial incentives will often motivate taxpayers to take positions that may be more aggressive than other reporting alternatives. Such decisions result even with a potentially higher probability of later paying the tax related to an aggressive position because the amount of tax at issue can offset the higher probability. The article demonstrates how the amount of tax issue and risk could affect reporting positions. The risk of penalties for understatements of tax often may not be sufficient to deter such reporting tendencies. Nonetheless, an integral part of conducting expected-cost analyses of multiple reporting positions is determining the probability that reporting positions will be respected. With the inability to accurately predict the outcome of an aggressive reporting position, taxpayers may choose to be relatively conservative in their use of the expected-cost analysis, reducing its effectiveness. Thus, any movement toward broader use of expected-cost analysis requires efforts to refine probability analysis and prediction models of tax outcomes.

Keywords: Partnership, Bramblett, Substantial Understatement Penalty, Condominium Conversion, Dealer Property, Capital Gains

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Maeng, Ken, Expected-Cost Analysis as a Tool for Optimizing Tax Planning and Reporting (January 17, 2017). Real Estate Taxation, Vol. 44, pg. 21, (4th Quarter 2016), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 478, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
000,000) × (40% -20%) + 30% × , volume 18 , p. 363 - 388
Crossref
000,000) × (40% -20%) -$3 , volume 18
Crossref
I R See
Crossref
I R See
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
538,270
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies