Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Market Grossed out by Gross-Ups? An Investigation of Firms that Pay Their CEOs' Taxes

45 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Xiaoli (Shaolee) Tian

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: January 23, 2017

Abstract

This study provides evidence on whether investors value tax gross-up provisions for executives, and how the elimination of these provisions changes executive compensation. We examine the market response to tax gross-up eliminations and find investors react favorably to the removal of these provisions, suggesting that on average, investors perceived these agreements as a bad compensation practice that destroyed firm value. Next, we examine whether firms respond to these eliminations by increasing other forms of executive compensation. We find firms eliminating tax gross-up provisions increase bonus but not salary. Broadly, we provide evidence that some features of compensation contracts are not valued by shareholders, and that the elimination of these features can lead to increased firm value.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Corporate Governance, Tax, Tax Gross-Up

JEL Classification: J33, J41, H24, H25, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Tian, Xiaoli (Shaolee) and Wilson, Ryan J., Is the Market Grossed out by Gross-Ups? An Investigation of Firms that Pay Their CEOs' Taxes (January 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2904769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2904769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
&amp; Alvarez , Marsal
Executive Change in Control Report -2013/2014: Analysis of Executive Change in Control Arrangements of the Top 200 Companies. Alvarez & Marsal Taxand Posted: 2015
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Executive Compensation as an Agency Problem
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay Without Performance: Overview of the Issues
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 8 - 23 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A L Beller
Remarks Before Conference of the NASPP, The Corporate Counsel and the Corporate Executive. Speech by SEC Staff Posted: 2004-10-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,691
RANK
325,828
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies