Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and Superannuation Literacy: Australian and New Zealand Perspectives

(2016) 22(4) New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 327-345

19 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017

Toni Chardon

University of Southern Queensland

Mark Brimble

Griffith University - School of Accounting, Banking and Finance - Nathan and Logan Campuses; Centre for Financial Independence and Education

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 29, 2016

Abstract

The Australian and New Zealand governments both recognise the economic and social importance of building a financially capable population. In Australia this is recognised through the National Financial Literacy Strategy and in New Zealand through the National Strategy for Financial Capability. Both strategies define financial literacy (or capability) as the ability to make informed judgements and effective decisions regarding the use and management of money. One of the main aims of increasing the overall financial literacy of populations is creating an environment where consumers have the knowledge, skills and confidence to protect themselves from financial risk. It is argued that taxation consequences often play an important role in investment decisions and are also a major reason why people seek assistance and advice from professionals. Australian research has found that there are basic concepts of tax and superannuation that are important in the context of overall financial literacy and that there are specific aspects that potentially affect financial decision making which are poorly understood.

There are a number of fundamental differences in tax and retirement policy between Australia and New Zealand, including that New Zealanders with only salary and wage income are not required to lodge a tax return, that the main superannuation scheme (KiwiSaver) is optional, and that there is broadly no capital gains tax. However, in the context of financial decision making, there are also a number of similarities, particularly in relation to the availability of particular tax concessions for families, those with children, on lower incomes and also in relation to Government provisions for retirement. Much like Australian research, financial capability measures in New Zealand have previously found there may be gaps in the understanding of particular aspects of superannuation but that the targeted approach to building capability appears to be increasing this understanding, particularly in relation to New Zealand superannuation.

This article will explore the extent to which tax and superannuation literacy are considered important in the context of the New Zealand National Strategy for Financial Capability and the extent to which aspects of tax and superannuation have been measured as part of previous financial capability research. Using recent Australian measures of financial and tax literacy research as comparisons, it will be argued that irrespective of differences in tax policy between the two countries, having an understanding of basic tax and superannuation concepts is important in terms of building overall financial capability of citizens in both countries.

Keywords: Financial Literacy, Tax Literacy, Financial Capability, Confidence

JEL Classification: K34, H21, I22

Suggested Citation:

Chardon, Toni and Brimble, Mark and Freudenberg, Brett, Tax and Superannuation Literacy: Australian and New Zealand Perspectives (December 29, 2016). (2016) 22(4) New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 327-345, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2907828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,954
RANK
446,627
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies