Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Destination-Based Cash Flow Taxation

Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14/2017

Saïd Business School WP 2017-09

Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation WP 17/01

101 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2017 Last revised: 17 Jun 2017

Alan J. Auerbach

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Michael Keen

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Fiscal Affairs Department; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); University of Tokyo

John Vella

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: February 6, 2017

Abstract

This paper presents, analyses, and further develops the idea of a destination-based cash-flow tax (DBCFT). Its purpose is expositional: to describe the DBCFT, how it might work, what its effects would be and some of the challenges that its implementation would face. The paper starts by introducing the basic mechanics of the DBCFT before evaluating it against five criteria: economic efficiency, robustness to avoidance and evasion, ease of administration, fairness and stability. It does so both for the case of universal adoption by all countries and the more plausible case of unilateral adoption. The paper then looks closely at the application of DBCFT treatment to the financial sector, which is a familiar problem under the VAT but has been little considered under the DBCFT. Finally, the paper sets out some core implementation issues, and how they might be addressed. It also compares the implementation of a DBCFT with the economically equivalent reform option that introduces a broad-based, uniform rate VAT (or achieves the same effect through an existing VAT), and reduces taxes on payroll by the same proportion.

Keywords: International Tax; Tax Reform; Cash Flow Tax; DBCFT; BEPS Destination-Based Cash Flow Taxation; Consumption Tax

JEL Classification: H20; H21; H22;H23: H25; H27

Suggested Citation:

Auerbach, Alan Jeffrey and Devereux, Michael P. and Keen, Michael and Vella, John, Destination-Based Cash Flow Taxation (February 6, 2017). Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14/2017, Saïd Business School WP 2017-09, Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation WP 17/01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2908158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2908158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Alan Schenk and Oliver Oldman more accurately describe it as a "credit-subtraction" VAT, as opposed to the "sales-subtraction VAT"
Many analysts have described the Japanese VAT as a subtraction-method tax. See Posted: 2005
See , Grinberg
Weisbach (2000) and McLure Posted: 1987
W D Andrews
A Consumption-Type or Cash Flow Personal Income Tax
Harvard Law Review , volume 1113 , p. 1148 - 165 Posted: 1974
Crossref
A J Auerbach
A Modern Corporate Tax Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,756
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,288
RANK
11,080
44 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies