Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Hobby and Business Loss Rules: Evidence from Recent Developments

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 8(1), p. 77-86, 2016

10 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2017

Peg (Margaret) Horan

Wagner College

Thomas Horan

PKF O’Connor Davies, LLP - New York, NY Location

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

When we think of a hobby, we think of something that is engaged in for recreational or pleasure purposes such as painting, writing, coaching, golfing, horse farming, film producing, developing athletic abilities to win say an Olympic Metal, working on arts and crafts, creating music, opening a bed and breakfast or a country estate, to name a few. These recreational activities are expensive to pursue but may also have a money making aspect as well. On the other hand, strictly speaking a business is an economic activity engaged primarily to generate a profit. One can see where a hobby could be pursued for pleasure and profit. Also one could see where there could be a tax motivation to deduct the losses from a hobby operation by having it categorized as a business to offset other taxable income. So how to distinguish? Or rather, where is the “line drawn in the sand” that distinguishes between a hobby and a business is here explored as the lines may be blurred from the interpretation of the Internal Revenue Service and from Tax Court Case tried. Also, from the literature review, what is the “unofficial” interpretation that seems to emerge.

Keywords: Hobby Loss, Business Loss, Income Tax Deductible

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Horan, Margaret and Horan, Thomas, A Review of Hobby and Business Loss Rules: Evidence from Recent Developments (2016). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 8(1), p. 77-86, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2909071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Allentuck
YOUR MONEY: Making Your Hobbies Pay
Globe & Mail Posted: 1995
M Cohn
IRS Pressed to Crack Down on Hobby Losses
Accountingtoday.com Posted: 2016
L H Diamond , M Horne
Hobby Losses; Miscellaneous Individual and Corporate Problems
The Tax Lawyer , issue 3 Posted: 1970
J R Fay , M L Roush
Business Expense Deductions versus Hobby Expense Deductions
CPA Journal , volume 83 , issue 9 , p. 26 - 31 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
502,214
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies