Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finances of the Nation: Taxing Consumption in Canada: Rates, Revenues, and Redistribution

Canadian Tax Journal, 2016, Vol. 64, No. 2, p. 417

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2909918

Posted: 2 Feb 2017

Richard M. Bird

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Smart

University of Toronto - Department of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

This article examines the role of sales and excise taxes in government revenues and in the Canadian economy. In particular, it explores the distributional effects of consumption taxes among Canadian households, to determine whether and to what extent the tax burden is borne disproportionately by low-income households rather than high-income households. The authors present data on statutory sales tax rates and track the share of sales and excise taxes in Canada's gross domestic product and government revenues over the past 34 years (1981-2014). They then analyze cross-sectional data on consumption patterns and tax payments of Canadian households, and conclude that the presumed regressivity of sales taxes -- particularly general sales taxes like the goods and services tax -- is far from clear.

Keywords: sales taxes, excise taxes, rates, revenue, incidence, redistribution

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Richard Miller and Smart, Michael, Finances of the Nation: Taxing Consumption in Canada: Rates, Revenues, and Redistribution (February 1, 2017). Canadian Tax Journal, 2016, Vol. 64, No. 2, p. 417, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2909918, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2909918
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies