Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Defending Worldwide Taxation with a Shareholder-Based Definition of Corporate Residence

Brigham Young University Law Review, Vol. 2016, No. 6, 2017

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 663

BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-20

35 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2017 Last revised: 29 Aug 2017

J. Clifton Fleming

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Robert J. Peroni

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

Date Written: February 6, 2017

Abstract

This Article argues that a principled, efficient, and practical definition of corporate residence is necessary even if some form of corporate integration is adopted, and that such a definition is a key element in designing either a real worldwide or a territorial income tax system as well as a potential restraint on the inversion phenomenon. The Article proposes that the United States adopt a shareholder-based definition of corporate residence that is structured as follows:

1. A foreign corporation is a U.S. tax resident for any year if fifty percent or more of its shares, determined by vote or value, was beneficially owned by U.S. residents on the last day of the immediately preceding year (or was the average ownership for the year by U.S. residents as determined by averaging U.S. resident ownership on the last day of each quarter of the preceding year). A foreign corporation presumptively satisfies this test if any class of its shares is regularly traded in one or more U.S. public capital markets or is marketed to U.S. persons.

2. This presumption can be rebutted by the foreign corporation showing that U.S. resident beneficial ownership of its shares is below the fifty-percent threshold.

3. The presumption can be overcome in the same way by the IRS if it encounters cases where a foreign corporation that is actually foreign-owned lists a class of shares on a U.S. exchange in order to achieve U.S. resident status for tax-avoidance reasons.

This proposed shareholder-ownership test, however, would be an alternate definition; a corporation would continue to be a U.S. tax resident if it were formed under the law of a U.S. jurisdiction. Finally, this Article examines the common objections to a shareholder-based definition of corporate residence and explains why those objections are unpersuasive.

Keywords: Income Taxation, International Taxation, International Income Taxation, Residence, Corporate Residence

Suggested Citation:

Fleming, J. Clifton and Peroni, Robert Joseph and Shay, Stephen E., Defending Worldwide Taxation with a Shareholder-Based Definition of Corporate Residence (February 6, 2017). Brigham Young University Law Review, Vol. 2016, No. 6, 2017, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 663, BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Graetz See
Graetz
Taxing International Income, supra note 2
Daniel Shaviro , The David , R Tillinghast Lecture
The Rising Tax-Electivity of U.S. Corporate Residence, 64 TAX L. REV , volume 377 Posted: 2010
3%) of the $22,812 trillion U.S. C corporation stock outstanding at the end of 2015. See Rosenthal & Austin, supra note 67, at 927. However, by using a definition of U.S. corporate equity that was broader than C corporation stock, the Joint Committee Staff calculated that foreign investors held only 17.4% of U.S. corporate equities at the close of 2015. See JOINT COMM., INTEGRATION, supra note 33, at 15. For a description of uncertainties in the data, see Chris William Sanchirico
A recent study found that foreign residents owned $5 , p. 543 - 567 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Amedeo Rizzo
The Role of Corporate Residence in Tax Matters and Its Relationship With the Provision of Dividend Relief: A Comparative Analysis Between the UK and the US Tax Systems
International Journal of Accounting and Taxation, June 2019, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 35-39 · 5 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2020 · Downloads: 83
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert Kudrle
The Continuing Turmoil in International Business Taxation
54 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,993
RANK
165,762
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies