Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Incorporation Really Better than Central Management and Control for Testing Corporate Residency? An Answer to Corporate Tax Evasion and Inversion

Charles Edward Andrew Lincoln IV, Is Incorporation Really Better Than Central Management and Control for Testing Corporate Residency? An Answer to Corporate Tax Evasion and Inversion, 43 Ohio N.U. L. Rev. 359 (2017).

14 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2017 Last revised: 28 May 2017

Charles Edward Andrew Lincoln IV

University of Groningen, Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 16, 2017

Abstract

Central management and control is the best test for determining corporate residency, because it is most likely to reflect economic reality of a corporate entity. The place where decisions are made that affect the core of the business, not where incorporation exists ought to be the most important factor in the tax assessment process.

These two tests are a legal test — incorporation — and a substantive test — management or some variation of that — used to determine residency. Many countries combine the two tests. An argument running through this essay is that the substantive test is more akin to the economic reality.

The importance of finding corporate residence is that the resident country can tax the company on its worldwide income. It becomes a magnate to attract income and business profits from other countries, unless it is a permanent establishment in the other countries or subject to source state taxation, such as dividends or interests. This test for residency can be determined by the incorporation test or the central management test (or a derivative thereof).

Having these various tests can lead to abuse, such as a jurisdiction that only has incorporation test — and then has a 0% or low tax — then the structures can draw world wide income to a low tax jurisdiction. This would be considered abuse. Anti-abuse rules are put into place to respond to these clever scenarios of tax planning.

Suggested Citation:

Lincoln IV, Charles Edward Andrew, Is Incorporation Really Better than Central Management and Control for Testing Corporate Residency? An Answer to Corporate Tax Evasion and Inversion (February 16, 2017). Charles Edward Andrew Lincoln IV, Is Incorporation Really Better Than Central Management and Control for Testing Corporate Residency? An Answer to Corporate Tax Evasion and Inversion, 43 Ohio N.U. L. Rev. 359 (2017). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2918694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
RANK
262,460
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies