Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Tax Avoidance Reduce Individual Investors’ Willingness to Own Stock?

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-16

50 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2017 Last revised: 16 Jan 2021

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: January 15, 2020

Abstract

We use data on individual investors’ retail trades and stock holdings to investigate whether corporate tax avoidance affects the willingness of individual investors to own stock. Consistent with corporate tax avoidance increasing the perceived risk of owning stock and the
costs of processing financial information, we provide evidence that individual investors own less stock of firms that avoid more taxes and report more uncertain tax positions. We also find that individuals’ monthly trades are negatively associated with media coverage of corporate taxes, and this result appears to be driven by retail investors selling stock in firms that have negative media coverage of their taxes. We then examine whether investor sophistication and investment strategies impact individuals’ willingness to own stock in firms that avoid taxes. Our results suggest that more sophisticated investors and investors with shorter investment horizons own more stock in
high tax avoidance firms, while more conservative investors own less. Overall, our findings are consistent with significant variation in how individual investors perceive corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: tax avoidance; individual investors, stock holdings; information asymmetry.

JEL Classification: D14, D22, D8, G11, G12, H26, M4

Suggested Citation:

Rego, Sonja O. and Williams, Brian and Wilson, Ryan J., Does Corporate Tax Avoidance Reduce Individual Investors’ Willingness to Own Stock? (January 15, 2020). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2919004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2919004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J Blouin , W Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
B Barber , M Odean , T
Trading is Hazardous to Your Wealth: The Common Stock Investment Performance of Individual Investors
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 773 - 806 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Barber , M Odean , T
Boys Will Be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence, And Common Stock Investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2001-02
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Davidson B. Gillette , Shane R. Stinson
Who Gets to Play Dirty? Using Legitimacy Theory to Examine Investor Reactions to Differing Modes of Corporate Tax Minimization*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 2596 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,355
RANK
129,393
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies