Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trump & VAT: NAFTA, Trade Barriers & Retaliatory Tariffs

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 17-06

17 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2017

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: December 14, 2016

Abstract

During the first presidential debate President-elect Donald J. Trump argued that the value added tax (VAT) operated as a trade barrier to American business everywhere. He particularly pointed to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Mexico was a special concern. China was also a concern, but in this instance Trump was troubled both by China’s VAT and by China’s alleged currency manipulation.

This paper can only consider the VAT aspect of Trump’s trade policy. There appears to be some confusion about the operation of the VAT, particularly the border adjustment mechanism, and how US tariffs could “level the playing field.” The confusion needs to be cleared up.

Trump indicated that as president he would respond to “unfair trade practices” by imposing retaliatory tariffs on goods and services coming into the US from any country that imposed an import VAT on American businesses exporting goods or services to their country. There are more than 160 countries that have a VAT and all of them impose an import VAT. Trump is promising a trade war. He promises to set US tariffs at a rate that would force governments and businesses to take notice.

The argument for imposing US tariffs on imported goods coming from countries that collect an import VAT on US goods raises three questions that can be adequately handled by looking just at the NAFTA relationship. Two questions consider the issue from the perspective of a US manufacturer exporting to a NAFTA country, the third question hypothetically moves a US manufacturer into a NAFTA country, and considers the impact of VAT refunds on sales that this company will make back into the US. The questions revolve around the two central elements of border adjustments – the full VAT refund allowed for exports, and the import VAT collected from the importer of record. Trump has concerns with both aspects.

The three questions are:

(1) US Exports to NAFTA - In the normal case, does the standard, destination-based, credit-invoice VAT erect a trade barrier equal to the amount of the import VAT?

(2) US Exports to NAFTA - If not creating a barrier in the normal case, are there other fact patterns where the standard, destination-based, credit-invoice VAT does erect a trade barrier equal to the amount of the import VAT?

(3) US Imports from NAFTA - Can an American manufacturing company move its operations to Canada or Mexico and gain an unfair advantage when selling their product back into the US VAT-free; that is, can a manufacturer unfairly benefit from the VAT refund aspect of border adjustment that is provided to exporters from VAT jurisdictions, as compared to comparable manufacturers producing and selling entirely within the US?

These are the questions this paper considers.

Keywords: Bitcoin, Blockchain, GCC, Gulf Cooperation Council, Missing Trade Fraud, MTIC, DICE, Digital Invoice Customs Exchange, VAT, VATCoin, Artificial Intelligence

JEL Classification: F10, K10, K14, K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, Trump & VAT: NAFTA, Trade Barriers & Retaliatory Tariffs (December 14, 2016). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 17-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2919058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2919058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Jonas Gamso , Robert E. Grosse
NAFTA 2.0 – What Should Be Next?
23 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2017 · Downloads: 317
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rabah Amir , Jim Y. Jin , Michael Troege
On the limits of free trade in a Cournot world: When are restrictions on trade beneficial?
Canadian Journal of Economics/Revue canadienne d'économique , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 2036 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ali K. Ozdagli
Financial Market Implications of Trade War
24 Pages · Posted: 15 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 283
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,102
RANK
154,405
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies