Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marijuana Taxes — Present and Future Traps

Tax Notes Volume 83, Number 4, January 23, 2017

11 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2017 Last revised: 15 Aug 2017

Pat Oglesby

Center for New Revenue

Date Written: January 23, 2017

Abstract

Voters liked state marijuana taxes enough to propel recreational marijuana legalization to victory in eight states. Understandably, though, early taxes may suffer from a feeble tax base, inflexibility, and carve-outs. Essential enforcement can’t be guaranteed. And a tax that sputters along today could conk out if an interstate race to the bottom or competing federal taxes materialize.

This article examines:

• the facts on the ground for recreational marijuana taxes;

• inherent weaknesses in early taxes;

• three problems voters may overlook when legalizing marijuana;

• the specifics of 12 state legalization initiatives; and

• three potential post-enactment problems.

It’s unclear that marijuana taxes will stand the test of time. Legal commerce itself could fade away with a new administration. If for-profit marijuana commerce endures, some kind of marijuana taxes will too. The tax base march of progress is likely to continue. And the tax burden can go up too. The soundness of state marijuana taxes will depend on the ability of legislatures to dodge special interests and to make midcourse corrections. But state constitutions make some initiative-passed laws inherently inflexible. Like initiatives, legislation faces threats from medical tax breaks and reliance on flimsy price-based taxes.

Post-enactment, any tax scheme faces the threat of inadequate enforcement. Interstate commerce will threaten state producer taxes, and federal tax dominance could vitiate even the soundest state tax. Voters like marijuana revenue for government. But state marijuana tax laws are likely to remain works in progress for a long time.

An early January ranking of the eight recreational states' tax structures was revised significantly in August 2017 in light of legislative changes.

Suggested Citation:

Oglesby, Pat, Marijuana Taxes — Present and Future Traps (January 23, 2017). Tax Notes Volume 83, Number 4, January 23, 2017 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2920432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Full Text of Proposition , volume 205 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Arizona Marijuana Legalization, Proposition , volume 205 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Howard Fischer
Thanks to marijuana policy scholar Philip Wallach of the Brookings Institution for pointing that out. 72 ''Cannabis vs
Trump 2016 Election Results Posted: 2016-10-02
Nevada Marijuana Legalization
, volume 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,424
RANK
259,422
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies