Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taking the First Bite: Who Should Tax Apple’s $187 Billion in Ireland?

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 16-033

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 541

8 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2017 Last revised: 12 Jan 2021

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Gianluca Mazzoni

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

On December 19, 2016, the European Commission (hereinafter “Commission”) published its final decision in the Apple State aid case. The Commission concluded that two tax rulings granted in 1991 and 2007 on the allocation of profits to the Irish branches of Apple Sales International (ASI) and Apple Operations Europe (AOE) amounted to illegal state aid, and ordered Ireland to immediately recover this aid from Apple. The key issue in the Apple decision is where Apple’s foreign income ($187 billion, as of 2016) should be regarded as being generated. In the authors’ opinion, there is almost no basis for any argument that two-thirds of the profits of Apple Inc. were generated by functions performed, assets used and risks assumed in Ireland, where only 4 percent of its global workforce and approximately 1 percent of its customers are located. Indeed, under traditional principles, profits originate and taxes are due where value is created – that is, where the research and development is conducted. Accordingly, since almost all of Apple’s research activity takes place in the United States, Apple should remit most of its taxes there. Such view that was recently upheld by Jacob Lew, Neelie Kroes and Pascal Saint-Amans, does not take into account that 60 percent of Apple’s total net sales occurs overseas and the significance of customer market in value creation. In addition, it is also inconsistent with the position taken by the Internal Revenue Service in the Glaxo case, i.e., intangibles derive their value primarily in the country where marketing activities are carried out and not where research and development activity is performed. This paper discusses how the arguments presented by the IRS in Glaxo can be used by high-tax EU countries to justify locating extra profits to sales and marketing support operations performed by Apple Europe retail subsidiaries. While ordering Ireland to recover €13 billion in illegal tax benefits, the Commission left the door open for other tax authorities to claim for Apple’s commercial risks, sales and other activities that might have taken place in their countries.

Keywords: Apple Ireland, state aid, Eu tax, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Mazzoni, Gianluca, Taking the First Bite: Who Should Tax Apple’s $187 Billion in Ireland? (February 22, 2017). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 16-033, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 541, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2921961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2921961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,693
RANK
106,875
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies