Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Direct and Indirect Costs of Tax Treaty Policy – Evidence from Ukraine

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-01

32 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2017 Last revised: 25 Feb 2017

Oleksii Balabushko

World Bank

Sebastian Beer

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics; Oesterreichische Nationalbank (OeNB)

Jan Loeprick

Vienna University of Economics and Business; World Bank

Felipe Vallada

Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law; Vienna University of Economics and Business; University of Sao Paulo - Faculdade de Direito; University of São Paulo (USP)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

This study combines macro and micro data to quantify the revenue effects of double tax treaties. First, drawing on administrative information, the study estimates the tax sensitivity of income flows (dividend, interest, and royalty payments) at an aggregate level. The analysis finds important direct revenue costs linked to treaty restrictions on taxing rights, especially for flows into a few major investment hubs. However, high elasticities of income flows also suggest that increases in withholding rates at the individual treaty partner level would not necessarily result in more revenue collection. Second, the study uses firm-level information to estimate the sensitivity of reported profitability to changes in the relevant treaty network. The analysis of the reported earnings of multinational enterprise affiliates in Ukraine suggests that the ownership structure and operations with affiliates in certain jurisdictions explain reported profitability, and should thus receive increased attention in risk assessment and transfer pricing audit activities.

Keywords: Tax Treaty Policy, Transfer Pricing, Domestic Resource Mobilization, Ukraine

JEL Classification: F21, F23, H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Balabushko, Oleksii and Beer, Sebastian and Beer, Sebastian and Loeprick, Jan and Vallada, Felipe and Vallada, Felipe, The Direct and Indirect Costs of Tax Treaty Policy – Evidence from Ukraine (February 22, 2017). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2922156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2922156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
B Arnold
An Introduction to Tax Treaties Posted: 2013
Anders Åslund
Ukraine: What Went Wrong and How to Fix It. Peterson Institute for International Economics Posted: 2015
S Beer , J Loeprick
Profit-shifting: drivers of transfer (mis)pricing and the potential of countermeasures
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 426 - 451 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Brooks , R Kreever
The Troubling Role of Tax Treaties
Tax Design Issues Worldwide Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,764
RANK
152,784
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies