Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) Against Tax Avoidance : Case Study in Indonesia

16 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2018

Kiryanto Winarto

Sultan Agung Islamic University (UNISSULA)

Date Written: February 24, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to analyze the behavior of tax avoidance before and after the application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Population in this research is manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2007 and 2012. Selected in 2007 as a sample prior to the IFRS and the 2012 samples after the IFRS. The sampling technique used is purposive sampling and obtained 70 samples from the company. The analytical tool used is Paired Sample Test. Tax avoidance in this study proxied using four measurements is Cash Effective Tax Rate (CETR), Books Tax Gap (BTG), General Accepted Accounting Principle Affective Tax Rate (GAAP ETR), Current Effective Tax Rate (Current ETR). Before analyzed, then tested for normality for each - each a proxy measurement of the resulting 45 samples for measurement CETR, 35 samples for the measurement of BTG, 56 samples for measurement GAAP ETR, and 58 samples for measurements Current ETR. The practical implication of the research suggests the government to make a policy to reduce ability tax avoidance.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS), government

Suggested Citation:

Winarto, Kiryanto, The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) Against Tax Avoidance : Case Study in Indonesia (February 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2923547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2923547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
N A Annisa
Influence of Corporate Governance Against Tax Avoidance. Thesis Posted: 2012
Annisa
Influence of Corporate Governance Against Tax Avoidance
Nur Alifmida Ayu And Pass Kurniasih , volume 123 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 189 Posted: 2012
N Ayuningtyas
Factors Influence Education, Work Experience and Training Apparatus Against Tax On Tax Avoidance
National Symposium on Accounting Posted: 2014
Judi Budiman , Provita Wijayanti
Difference Analysis of Double Taxation (Tax Avoidance) At Company Which Dan Final Taxable Income Taxable Income The Company Not Final
Proceedings of the National Symposium on Taxation 4 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Ahnaf Ali Alsmady
The effect of political connection on corporate tax avoidance: The moderating role of accounting information quality
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 12 , issue 1, special issue , p. 333 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,333
RANK
131,938
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies