Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EU Fundamental Freedoms and Dividend Taxation

Haslehner et al. (eds.), Landmark Decisions of the ECJ in Direct Taxation, 2015, 41-59

17 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2017

Joachim Englisch

University of Münster - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2015

Abstract

Dividend taxation is one of the areas of direct taxation in which the European Court’s fundamental freedom scrutiny has had the most significant impact on Member States’ tax systems. Two key judgements are routinely identified as the landmark decisions that led to this development and that were subsequently refined and modified in a series of further Court rulings: the Verkooijen case regarding inbound dividends from outbound investments made by resident taxpayers and the ACT Group Litigation (ACT GL) case concerning outbound dividends from inbound investments made by non-resident shareholders. This paper endeavours to outline the most relevant findings of the CJEU in those two precedents as well as in the subsequent line of judgements that built upon them, and to provide some critical comments where appropriate. Furthermore, the paper will contrast the approach of the CJEU in the context of outbound dividend taxation with the findings of the EFTA Court in its well-known Fokus Bank decision.

Keywords: dividend taxation, european taxation, ACT GL, Manninen, Fokus Bank

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Englisch, Joachim, EU Fundamental Freedoms and Dividend Taxation (August 1, 2015). Haslehner et al. (eds.), Landmark Decisions of the ECJ in Direct Taxation, 2015, 41-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2924383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Amurta
, p. 37 - 38
Denkavit Internationaal
Aberdeen Property Fininvest Alpha, C-303/07 , p. 50 - 51
Amorim Energia
, p. 57 - 58
Crossref
&amp; Tate , Lyle
EU:C:2012:463, para. 31; Commission v. Belgium, C-387/11 , p. 48 - 49
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,441
RANK
521,427
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies