Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Hybrid' Forms of Taxing Consumption: A Viable Alternative to EU VAT?

World Journal of VAT/GST Law 2015, 119-131

16 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2017

Joachim Englisch

University of Münster - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 16, 2015

Abstract

In the last decades, VAT/GST systems have proliferated across the globe and have usually replaced any eventual cumulative turnover taxes or retail sales taxes (RST) previously operated in the respective country of adoption. However, the input VAT credit inherent to a VAT/GST facilitates some particular types of tax fraud which are absent in a turnover tax or RST system, especially because the entitlement of the business customer to the tax credit is normally not contingent upon the prior payment of the corresponding VAT/GST liability by the supplier. The ensuing ‘VAT gap’ has fueled the debate in the EU whether VAT should be transformed into a so-called ‘general reverse charge regime’ that would be equivalent to a RST while maintaining the invoice and audit trail of a VAT system . The reform project has gained momentum recently due to a proposal by the Commission which would allow the temporary application of a generalised reverse charge mechanism by Member States that so desire. This article discusses the pros and cons of such a hybrid system.

Keywords: VAT, GST, generalised reverse charge, VAT gap

JEL Classification: H24

Suggested Citation:

Englisch, Joachim, 'Hybrid' Forms of Taxing Consumption: A Viable Alternative to EU VAT? (February 16, 2015). World Journal of VAT/GST Law 2015, 119-131, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2924353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Tait For
et seq.; PSP, Planspiel zur systembezogenen Änderung bei der Umsatzsteuer
Festschrift für Wolfgang Nolz Posted: 1988
/ Lejeune , Daou
et seq.; see also EU Commission, Study to quantify and analyse the VAT Gap in the EU Member States
Improving VAT/GST Posted: 2014
For further details, see ECJ 12 Posted: 2006-01
Spilker
et seq.; Alonso González, Fraude y delito fiscal en el IVA
Essays in International and European Tax Law Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
RANK
481,321
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies