Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A European Perspective on the US Plans for a Destination Based Cash Flow Tax

23 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2017 Last revised: 3 Mar 2017

Johannes Becker

University of Münster

Joachim Englisch

University of Münster - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 10, 2017

Abstract

The Republican majority in the US House of Representatives is considering the introduction of a destination based cash flow tax (DBCFT). A unilateral introduction of such a tax system raises a range of questions due to the co-existence with source based taxation systems abroad; moreover, it might be incompatible with world trade law. Adopting a European perspective, we show that foreign exporters may suffer, but foreign firms with affiliation in the US may benefit from a switch to the DBCFT. American multinational firms with affiliates abroad will be the likely losers of this policy – a surprising finding given President Trump’s “America first!” rhetoric. Finally, tax competition over profits, IP location and investment will further intensify, which will require policy reactions by the EU and its member countries far beyond the implementation of the OECD BEPS project. We will therefore also discuss the WTO dimension of the reform plans and the legal and economic implications of possible adjustments in EU tax systems.

Keywords: DBCFT, business tax reform, Ryan blueprint, destination based taxation, WTO and taxes

JEL Classification: E62, F13, H25

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Johannes and Englisch, Joachim, A European Perspective on the US Plans for a Destination Based Cash Flow Tax (February 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2924313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2924313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
K Adamantopoulos
Art. I SCMA
WTO -Trade Remedies Posted: 2008
M Alcover , A M Garcés
Under Article III:4 of the GATT 1994 and Article 2.1 of the TBT Agreement: A Comparative Analysis
11 Global Trade and Customs Journal , p. 360 - 368 Posted: 2016
The revenue raised would then primarily have to flow to the municipalities affected by the loss of trade tax revenue ensuing from a super-deduction or other form of tax relief for local wage costs
Most recently, the Ryan blueprint seems to enjoy more presidential approval which seems to be motivated by the conflict over building a Wall at the US-Mexican border Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,733
RANK
161,684
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies