Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'They are a Tax Fearing People': Deterrent Effect – Penalties, Audit and Corruption in a Developing Country

Curtin Law and Taxation Review, 3: 1-50 (2016)

6 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2017

Nahida Faridy

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: December 30, 2016

Abstract

Critical to a country’s tax revenue base is taxpayer compliance, with Allingham and Sandmo’s model of tax compliance predicting that if detection is likely and penalties are severe, people will be more compliant. However, the mixed evidence about the deterrence effect has been attributed to such factors as low penalties and corruption. Given the importance of a value added tax (VAT) for developing nations, this study explores to what extent is there a deterrent effect to improve compliance with VAT Law in such a country. In particular, this article reports the findings from focus groups and a survey of 240 small and medium businesses (SME) in Bangladesh.

The results indicate that there is greater deterrent effect for SME taxpayers who have a compliant history compared to non-compliant taxpayers. These results are consistent over a number of measures of deterrence, including the likelihood of audits and penalties. Part of the reason for the reduced deterrence for non-compliant SME taxpayers appears to be due to Tax Officers being ‘managed’ through bribes. The findings demonstrate that in a developing country for a deterrent effect through audits and penalties to lead to greater compliance, it is essential that corruption is addressed.

Keywords: VAT, compliance, Bangladesh, SME, audits, penalties

JEL Classification: K34, H26, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Faridy, Nahida and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, 'They are a Tax Fearing People': Deterrent Effect – Penalties, Audit and Corruption in a Developing Country (December 30, 2016). Curtin Law and Taxation Review, 3: 1-50 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2925528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies