Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Home Sweet Home' versus International Tax Planning: Where Do Multinational Firms Hold Their U.S. Trademarks?

39 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017

Jost H. Heckemeyer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Kiel - Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences

Pia Olligs

University of Cologne

Michael Overesch

Universität zu Köln

Date Written: February 24, 2017

Abstract

This study analyzes whether tax incentives play a role in the geographical allocation of U.S. trademark rights within large multinational enterprises. Considering the S&P 500 firms, we find a strong home country concentration of U.S. trademark ownership. Still, the probability to offshore legal ownership of U.S. trademarks increases with the value of the respective trademark and with the international footprint of the firm. Considering the choice in which country to hold the trademark, host country taxes turn out to have a statistically significant influence. In an additional analysis, we show that our main results also carry over to European multinationals.

Keywords: Trademark, Corporate Tax, Location Choice, Multinational Firm

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Olligs, Pia and Overesch, Michael, 'Home Sweet Home' versus International Tax Planning: Where Do Multinational Firms Hold Their U.S. Trademarks? (February 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2927926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J Bankman
State Tax Shelters and the State Taxation of Capital
Virginia Tax Review , volume 16 , p. 769 - 788 Posted: 2007
J Blouin , L Krull
Bringing It Home: A Study of the Incentives Surrounding the Repatriation of Foreign Earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Boehm , R Karkinsky , B Knoll , N Riedel
Corporate Taxes and Strategic Patent Location within Multinational Firms Posted: 2015
L Bryer , M Asbell
Combining Trademarks in a Jointly Owned IP Holding Company. The Trademark Reporter , volume 98 , p. 834 - 872 Posted: 2008
Load more
2 Citations
Richard Phillips , Hannah Petersen , Ronen Palan
Group subsidiaries, tax minimization and offshore financial centres: Mapping organizational structures to establish the ‘in-betweener’ advantage
Journal of International Business Policy Posted: 2020
Crossref
Stefan Greil
The Arm’s Length Principle in the 21st Century – Alive and Kicking?
51 Pages · Posted: 24 May 2019 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 867
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,472
RANK
160,317
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies