Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Repatriation Taxes and Foreign Cash Holdings: The Impact of Anticipated Tax Reform

Forthcoming, Review of Financial Studies. DOI: 10.1093/rfs/hhy124

Posted: 6 Mar 2017 Last revised: 7 Dec 2018

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Joseph D. Piotroski

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Rimmy E. Tomy

University of Chicago

Date Written: November 19, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether an anticipated reduction in future repatriation taxes affects the amount of cash U.S. multinationals hold overseas. We find that the expected benefits of a repatriation tax reduction are positively associated with accelerated accumulations of global cash holdings once Congress proposed legislation. Additional tests examining domestic and foreign corporations, voluntary disclosures of foreign cash, and corporate payout behavior support our conclusion that observed increases in excess global cash are driven by changes in foreign cash. We also document that U.S. multinationals accumulating excess cash engage in complementary organizational and financial reporting activities designed to maximize expected tax benefits.

Keywords: Multinational corporate taxation, Repatriation, Foreign cash

JEL Classification: H25, G38, G30, M16

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Piotroski, Joseph D. and Tomy, Rimmy, Repatriation Taxes and Foreign Cash Holdings: The Impact of Anticipated Tax Reform (November 19, 2018). Forthcoming, Review of Financial Studies. DOI: 10.1093/rfs/hhy124, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2927120
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies