Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Special Tax Zones and the WTO

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 545

17 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2017 Last revised: 19 Apr 2017

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Martin Vallespinos

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: March 2, 2017

Abstract

Since the SCM agreement was enacted in 1995, the global leadership in the field of STZs has shifted from the OECD to the WTO.

The WTO general agreement includes a broad set of policy goals that goes beyond trade relationships, but its legal framework has been systematically narrowed to the task of assuring market access, non-discrimination, and fairness in trade. Other relevant issues that has impacts on trade, such as for example harmful tax competition or tax base erosion, has not been sufficiently weighted and has been treated as secondary items.

As of today, having passed more than 20 years since the enactment of the first WTO agreements, the WTO overall treatment of STZs appears to be inconsistent with the general policy goals of the organization. While service STZs generally remain free from challenge because there are no formal subsidy rules concerning services, manufacturing STZs with substantial activities have been significantly curtailed by the SCM Agreement. The disparity in the treatment of “goods” and “services” has produced a negative impact on developing countries, as they tend to rely more on manufacturing STZs to achieve economic growth, while benefitting developed countries, which to rely more on offshore banking, technology, and financial services STZs in order and attract investment.

The fairness and distributional concerns raised by this disparity in treatment has also been placed in a secondary position, on the grounds that the objectives of the WTO are limited to market access, freedom, and non-discrimination in trade. This perspective, however, is not consistent with the rationale and general policy goals of the organization, as provided by the main WTO agreement.

Keywords: Special Tax Zones, WTO, tax competition

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Vallespinos, Martin, Special Tax Zones and the WTO (March 2, 2017). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 545, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Joint Hearings before the Subcomm. on Savings, Pension, & Investment Policy and Subcomm. on Taxation & Debt Management of the Senate Comm. on Finance, 98 th Cong., 1st Sess Posted: 1983
Crossref
Marilyn Doskey Franson
Repeal of the Thirty Percent Withholding Tax on Portfolio Interest Paid to Foreign Investors, 6 Nw
J. Int'l L. & Bus , volume 930 Posted: 1984
Tax Globalization , Competition , The , Crisis , The , State
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
Globalization, Tax Competition, and the Fiscal Crisis of the Welfare State
Harv. L. Rev , volume 113 , issue 7 , p. 1573 - 676 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,385
RANK
175,588
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies