Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Taxation and the Organizational Form of Foreign Direct Investment

Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-02

Posted: 7 Feb 2023 Last revised: 7 Feb 2023

Harald Amberger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Saskia Kohlhase

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the relation between international taxation and the organizational form of foreign direct investment (‘FDI’). Using micro-level data on inbound FDI relations in Germany, we find that a higher tax burden on income earned in a corporate subsidiary increases the probability that a multinational corporation (‘MNC’) conducts foreign investment through a non-corporate flow-through. This effect is economically meaningful and varies with the relative importance of tax-motivated income shifting, a subsidiary’s non-tax benefits of limited liability and legal independence, and an MNC’s local knowledge. Moreover, we examine potential real effects of organizational form choices and document that affiliates established as flow-throughs exhibit a lower loss propensity and are less profitable than affiliates established as subsidiaries. Taken together, our findings inform policy makers about the potential response of MNCs to tax-law changes and suggest that the chosen organizational form can shape the future characteristics of investments abroad.

Keywords: International Taxation, Multinational Corporations (MNCs) and Enterprises (MNEs), Real Effects, Multiple Regression Analysis, Organizational Form Choice, Withholding taxes

JEL Classification: M41, H25, H73, K34

Suggested Citation:

Amberger, Harald Johannes and Kohlhase, Saskia, International Taxation and the Organizational Form of Foreign Direct Investment (January 11, 2023). Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2929347
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,523
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies