Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Analysis of Tax Avoidance Schemes in Australia

Lex Fullarton 'The Artful Aussie Tax Dodger: 100 years of tax reform in Australia' (Ibidem Verlag, 2017) pt III

66 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2017 Last revised: 26 Jul 2021

Lex Fullarton

Curtin University of Technology - Curtin Business School - Bentley Campus; Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Date Written: September 10, 2003

Abstract

Taxation, as defined for the purposes of this paper, is - the compulsory acquisition of goods and services, usually in the form of cash, by a government, from its people, for no return. It differs primarily from a gift in that it is taken by way of compulsion rather than being given voluntarily. There is an expectation on the behalf of taxpayers that the government will provide security and social order as well as social, infrastructure and welfare services such as education, health and amenities. Governments, faced by the eternal economic problem of boundless wants and limited resources often fail to deliver to the satisfaction of all. By its very nature therefore, a natural human aversion is created to the payment of taxes.

In modern democracies, which rely on the goodwill of the populace to retain office, the matter of government revenue is a heavily debated political issue. The emotional nature of the social issue often far outweighs the logical economic issue of government responsibility for the fair and equitable distribution of wants and needs of society. In modern capitalist society there remains a need for government intervention in the economy to ensure the populace have a fair distribution of wealth and that the economy is serviced by the infrastructure essential to maintain and service the needs of industry and commerce to conduct industry and professions.

Since the times of the Punic Wars when the site of Hannibal’s camp was auctioned in Rome, confidence tricksters have created fanciful schemes to encourage the unwary or the naive into giving them large sums of money or goods for worthless or non-existent goods or services. No scheme works with greater efficiency than tax avoidance.

Entrepreneurs and confidence tricksters have exploited taxpayer’s natural aversion to paying income tax to promote schemes to divert monies from taxation into projects which substitute payments from taxation revenue to their own projects. Australian commercial ventures and taxation legislation are influenced by the nation’s position as a sophisticated Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (‘OECD’) nation centred among the developing and third world nations of South East Asia and the South Pacific.

Schemes range from genuine attempts to promote and provide incentive to introduce innovations to commerce and industry which are encouraged by the government through taxation incentives such as Part 10BA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) and afforestation project incentives, to outright frauds such as the sale of contracts and investments which are nominal or totally non-existent.

This paper examines the impact of tax incentives in the encouragement of tax avoidance and the international responses to Australia’s sophisticated OECD taxation environment by it’s near neighbours. South Pacific Nations such as Vanuatu and the Cook Islands openly promote of their ‘tax haven’ status and encourage Australians to use their blatantly open tax avoidance legislation to bolster their own flagging economies at the expense of Australian taxation revenue. Anti-Tax Avoidance legislation such as Part IVA of the ITAA is proving ineffective as the government finds itself losing outright control in the political arena.

Reliance on coalitions and the support of minority parties in Parliament has resulted in a series of legislative compromises which is placing Australian taxation systems in real jeopardy. Poor government decisions over many generations have produced a social and political climate which has eroded taxpayer confidence in government and Australian politicians. The modern Australian taxpayer now feels he or she is not getting value for money and is more willing than ever to avoid taxation liabilities. Taxpayers, as demonstrated by the proliferation of public scandals in recent times, are all too willing to join taxation beneficial schemes and projects that are nothing more than fraudulent shams.

This paper seeks an answer to effective and efficient taxation revenue systems while encouraging industry and controlling the ever-present trickster, who is all too able to prey on the unknowing, unwary or equally devious taxpayer. Australia must recognise not only its political and social position but also its geographical position in determining its taxation policy for the future.

Keywords: Tax Havens, General Anti-Avoidance Regulations (GAARs), Tax Avoidance Schemes, International Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: H26, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Fullarton, Alexander, A Critical Analysis of Tax Avoidance Schemes in Australia (September 10, 2003). Lex Fullarton 'The Artful Aussie Tax Dodger: 100 years of tax reform in Australia' (Ibidem Verlag, 2017) pt III, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2931249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2931249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,798
RANK
126,330
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies