Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EU-US Trade and Investment Relations: Effects on Tax Evasion, Money Laundering and Tax Transparency

In-Depth Analysis. Reference No: PE 598.602. Brussels: European Parliamentary Research Service, March 2017 (with Simona Guagliardo)

40 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2017 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017

Isabelle Ioannides

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Institute for European Studies; European Parliament - European Parliamentary Research Service (EPRS)

Simona Guagliardo

Independent

Date Written: March 6, 2017

Abstract

This Ex-Post Impact Assessment analyses the EU-US trade and investment relations to assess whether and, if so, to what extent these relations have impacted on issues related to tax evasion, money laundering and tax transparency. The EU and US economies are highly intertwined, generating together half the world’s gross domestic product and more than 30% of global trade. Overall, trade and investment relations between the European Union and the USA do not seem to have impacted on US efforts to combat tax evasion, strengthen anti-money laundering legislation, and its implementation, and boost tax transparency.

While some progress was made on the ongoing negotiation of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), which also aims to establish regulatory cooperation between the EU and the USA on financial services, progress has been below expectations. The USA has set up mechanisms for information exchange with EU Member States, has signed tax treaties with almost all EU Member States, and has developed a robust legal framework to address money laundering and combat terrorism financing. Despite being largely compliant with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, challenges remain on questions of beneficial ownership, cross-border exchange of information, privacy issues, and designated non-financial businesses and professions.

Keywords: transatlantic relations, trade, anti-money laundering, tax evasion, European Union, USA

Suggested Citation:

Ioannides, Isabelle and Guagliardo, Simona, EU-US Trade and Investment Relations: Effects on Tax Evasion, Money Laundering and Tax Transparency (March 6, 2017). In-Depth Analysis. Reference No: PE 598.602. Brussels: European Parliamentary Research Service, March 2017 (with Simona Guagliardo), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
For further information, refer to H.R.297 -Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act , p. 2015 - 2016
Jane G Gravelle
Tax Havens: International Tax Avoidance and Evasion
Congressional Research Service , p. 36 - 37 Posted: 2015-01-15
Crossref
Jane G Gravelle
Tax Havens: International Tax Avoidance and Evasion
Congressional Research Service , p. 45 - 46 Posted: 2015-01-15
Crossref
Jane G Gravelle
Tax Havens: International Tax Avoidance and Evasion
Congressional Research Service Posted: 2015-01-15
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,178
RANK
411,653
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies