Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Much Uncertainty About Uncertain Tax Positions

Texas Tax Lawyer, Vol. 37, No. 3, Spring 2010

10 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2017

Robert Probasco

Texas A&M University School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2010

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced in January 2010 a new initiative to require certain businesses to report “uncertain tax positions” on a new schedule filed with their annual tax returns. Draft schedules and instructions issued in April 2010 clarified some of the mechanical aspects of the new requirement but left many open issues and questions. The IRS proposal built on requirements by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”). The standard requires companies, in their financial statements, to reserve some of the benefits from any position taken on their tax returns unless it is more likely than not that the IRS would fully concede the issue prior to litigation if it arose during an audit.

The article describes the proposals and then discusses concerns and open issues. The most significant concerns include that, as a practical matter, information asymmetry may result in overly aggressive positions taken by the IRS and the IRS may not have the administrative capacity to use the additional information properly. The proposal also raises concerns about privilege and waiver, particularly with respect to the work-product doctrine and tax accrual workpapers.

Keywords: Internal Revenue Service, IRS, uncertain tax positions, UTP, FIN 48, privilege, waiver, work-product doctrine, tax accrual workpapers

Suggested Citation:

Probasco, Robert, Much Uncertainty About Uncertain Tax Positions (May 1, 2010). Texas Tax Lawyer, Vol. 37, No. 3, Spring 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2933845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Mr
2010-7 I.R.B. 408. The Service subsequently issued Announcement 2010-17, 2010-13 I.R.B. 515, to extend the deadline for comments and request input on three additional questions , volume 2 , p. 2010 - 2029
As a result of the FASB codification project, the relevant portions of FIN 48 are now contained in FASB ASC , p. 740 - 750
Examples are at id. ¶ ¶ A12-A15
Crossref
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies