Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causation, Science and Taxation

20 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2017 Last revised: 28 Apr 2017

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Date Written: March 16, 2017

Abstract

A surprising feature of legal and economic discourse on taxation is the rare mention of causation. Causation is typically only discussed in respect of tort law and criminal law and not in other areas such as tax law. This seems to be because much of the analysis of taxation is a type of applied moral philosophy where the idea is to justify a preferred tax policy and not to discuss how a tax policy would cause a desirable outcome. Scientific inquiry is concerned however with identifying a theory of causation in respect of tax policy. For example, corporate tax cuts are often thought to cause economic growth. A scientific approach to taxation requires us to test this and other theories of taxation. This is necessary because science proceeds at least in part by the falsification or at times the augmentation of theories of causation. Hence, ideas about tax causation that seem to be wrong in the sense that an explanation of cause-and-effect seems to be subpar should be of special interest to tax scholars. Several of these are discussed here as follows: (i) the Laffer curve positing a negative relation between statutory tax rates and tax collections; (ii) the “small open economy” model of corporate tax incidence as passed entirely to labor; and (iii) the “trickle-down” economics or deadweight loss of income taxation however posited without any corresponding deadweight loss from wage taxation. The combination of these ideas forms the basis for much of modern tax policy design. However, the thesis of this paper is that these theses are subpar and that tax clinicians (such as, tax lawyers and accountants) may be able to infer causation in the tax context as a more advanced type of scientific inquiry. The practical experience of practitioners amounts to a clinical form of scientific knowledge about taxation.

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret, Causation, Science and Taxation (March 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2934153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Bret N Bogenschneider
The European Commission´s Idea of Small Business Tax Neutrality Posted: 2016
Popper
Crossref
Id
Einstein speaks of the 'search for those highly universal laws . . . from which a picture of the world can be obtained by pure deduction. There is no logical path', he says, 'leading to these . . . laws. They can only be reached by the logic of science intuition, based upon something like an intellectual love
Sir William Thomson
Popular Addresses, edition of 1888-89 cited in McCloskey , volume 484
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
RANK
719,188
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies