Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Scoring of Tax Reforms in the European Union

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2018

Salvador Barrios

European Commission, JRC - IPTS

Mathias Dolls

- Ifo Institute; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Anamaria Maftei
Andreas Peichl

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Mannheim - School of Economics (VWL); IZA Institute of Labor Economics; University of Essex - Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER)

Sara Riscado

Bank of Portugal; Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD)

Janos Varga

European Union - Directorate General for Economic and Financial Affairs (DG ECFIN)

Christian Wittneben

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, we present the first dynamic scoring exercise linking a multi‐country microsimulation and DSGE models for all countries of the European Union. We illustrate our novel methodology analysing a hypothetical tax reform for Belgium. We then evaluate real tax reforms in Italy and Poland. Our approach takes into account the feedback effects resulting from adjustments in the labor market and the economy‐wide reaction to the tax policy changes. Our results suggest that accounting for the behavioral reaction and macroeconomic feedback to tax policy changes enriches the tax reforms' analysis, by increasing the accuracy of the direct fiscal and distributional impact assessment provided by the microsimulation model for the tax reforms considered. Our results are in line with previous dynamic scoring exercises, showing that most tax reforms entail relatively smaller feedback effects in terms of the labor tax revenues for tax cuts benefiting workers, compared with the ones granted to firms.

Keywords: dynamic scoring, taxation, revenue estimation, European Union

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Barrios, Salvador and Dolls, Mathias and Maftei, Anamaria and Peichl, Andreas and Riscado, Sara and Varga, Janos and Wittneben, Christian, Dynamic Scoring of Tax Reforms in the European Union (March 1, 2017). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2938993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
R Aaberge , J Dagsvik , S Strom
Labour Supply Responses and Welfare Effects of Tax Reforms
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 59 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Aaberge , U Colombino , T Wennemo
Evaluating alternative representations of the choice sets in models of labour supply
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 586 - 612 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Adam , A Bozio
Dynamic scoring
OECD Journal on Budgeting , volume 9 , issue 2 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Altissimo , S Siviero , D Terlizzese
How deep are the deep parameters
Annales d'Economie et de Statistique , p. 207 - 226 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jason DeBacker , Richard W. Evans , Kerk L. Phillips
Integrating Microsimulation Models of Tax Policy into a DGE Macroeconomic Model
Public Finance Review , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 207 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Jason Matthew DeBacker , Richard William Evans , Kerk L Phillips
Integrating Microsimulation Models of Tax Policy into a DGE Macroeconomic Model
73 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2017 · Last revised: 24 Sep 2018 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
644,872
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies