Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction of Corporate Income Tax Deferral As an Essential Factor for Economic Development of Latvia

140 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2017

Anatolijs Prohorovs

RISEBA University of Applied Sciences

Levs Fainglozs

RISEBA University

Velta Stikute

BA School of Business and Finance

Date Written: September 16, 2016

Abstract

The study considers feasibility of introduction of corporate income tax deferral until distribution of enterprise profits aimed to accelerate economic growth, increase budget revenues and raise welfare of the population of Latvia. The study analyses the effect of introduction of corporate income tax deferral until distribution of enterprise profits considering the experience of Estonia, where this strategy has been implemented since 2000.

The study provides comparative analysis of some indicators on micro and macro levels, such as entrepreneurial activity, tax revenue and foreign direct investment in Estonia and Latvia for the period of twenty years. As a result of the analysis, the authors reveal the effect of the introduction of the corporate income tax deferral until distribution of enterprise profits on the Estonian economy on the level of enterprises and on the macro level, as well as the strength and duration of the effects of the 2000 tax reform in Estonia.

The authors have also made a forecast regarding possible additional growth of GDP and budget revenues in Latvia in case of introduction of corporate income tax deferral until distribution of enterprise profits. It has been concluded that the increase in additional budget revenues is a secondary effect, which depends on the qualitative and quantitative growth of the enterprises and investment activity of the enterprises and individuals (investing in enterprises). The study shows the reasons for additional growth of GDP and budget revenues in Latvia in case corporate income tax deferral is introduced.

Keywords: corporate income tax, tax deferral, fiscal policy and behavior of economic agents, density of enterprises, investment potential, comparative economic development

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H32, E22, O16, O23

Suggested Citation:

Prohorovs, Anatolijs and Fainglozs, Levs and Stikute, Velta, Introduction of Corporate Income Tax Deferral As an Essential Factor for Economic Development of Latvia (September 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2939173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
V Aivazian , L Booth
Do Emerging Market Firms Follow Different Dividend Policies from U.S. Firms?
The Journal of Financial Research , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 3 , p. 371 - 387 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Altshuler , R Dietz
Reconsidering Tax Expenditure Estimation: Challenges and Reforms Posted: 2008
R Altshuler , R Dietz
Tax Expenditure Estimation and Reporting: A Critical Review
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Baldwin , P Krugman
Agglomeration, integration, and tax harmonization
European Economic Review , volume 48 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Інна ЛУНІНА , Олена БІЛОУСОВА
РЕФОРМУВАННЯ ПОДАТКУ НА ПРИБУТОК ПІДПРИЄМСТВ У КОНТЕКСТІ ЗАБЕЗПЕЧЕННЯ СТІЙКОСТІ ДЕРЖАВНИХ ФІНАНСІВ
Economy of Ukraine , volume 61 , issue 7(680) Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,243
RANK
339,352
1 Citations
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies