Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation Among Trapped Cash, Permanently Reinvested Earnings, and Foreign Cash

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 30 May 2017

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Wayne L. Nesbitt

Michigan State University, Eli Broad College of Business

Date Written: March 22, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the relation among trapped cash, permanently reinvested earnings, and foreign cash. We define trapped cash as cash and cash equivalents generated by foreign earnings and held by U.S. MNC’s foreign subsidiaries due to concerns over repatriation taxes, and explain why trapped cash, permanently reinvested earnings, and foreign cash are not synonymous. We exploit the one-time tax rate reduction on repatriated earnings provided for under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 to construct a proxy to identify firms with trapped cash. We find R&D intensity, capital intensity, foreign growth opportunities and tax haven subsidiaries are significant indicators of trapped cash. Interestingly, we find firms with tax haven operations are less likely to have trapped cash. These findings highlight the joint role of tax havens as low-tax jurisdictions and offshore financial hubs. Finally, we investigate the relation between firm value and trapped cash. Controlling for excess cash, we find that trapped cash is negatively related to firm value, but primarily for firms with poor governance. Overall, results suggest that our measure is a parsimonious way to estimate the likelihood of having trapped cash that can be applied to a large sample of firms.

Keywords: trapped cash, permanently reinvested earnings, foreign cash, tax planning

JEL Classification: G38, H25, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kelley, Stacie and Nesbitt, Wayne L., The Relation Among Trapped Cash, Permanently Reinvested Earnings, and Foreign Cash (March 22, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,523
RANK
311,586
9 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies