Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
BEPS and the New International Tax Order

Brigham Young University Law Review, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2017

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 01, 2016

Abstract

Nations across the world are currently engaged in a coordinated international effort, ostensibly to curb excessive tax avoidance by the world’s biggest multinational companies. This Article contends, however, that the most likely impact will be to entrench a monopoly held by a small number of rich countries over the policymaking processes that created the tax avoidance problem to begin with. To examine this contention and probe possible solutions to it, the Article examines the legal and institutional components of the coordination project, referred to as Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), by situating them historically and analyzing their multi-functionality as both norm diffusion and institutional reinforcement mechanisms. The Article concludes that while history has repeatedly taught the world to be pessimistic about the potential for meaningful reform of the international tax order, there are reasons for cautious optimism in some of the recently-introduced institutions and processes. To reduce the risk of returning to a damaging status quo, careful attention will need to be devoted to ensuring meaningful participation by countries that have been systematically excluded from the global tax policy dialogue to date.

Keywords: tax law, tax policy, BEPS, international law, transnational legal order, soft law, governance, norms, multinationals, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: D63, D78, F42, H20, H25, H87, K34, K33, O19, O23, P16

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, BEPS and the New International Tax Order (December 01, 2016). Brigham Young University Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
ACTION PLAN 1, supra note 67; ACTION PLAN 8-10, supra note 86
PREVENTING THE ARTIFICIAL AVOIDANCE OF PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT STATUS Posted: 2015
ACTION PLAN 12, supra note 67 , p. 81 - 82
See , Development: An , Update
That the agenda setting stage has passed is confirmed in the Action 14 Terms of Reference, which explains that [t]he terms of reference do not alter the Action 14 minimum standard and in case of any differences arising from the interpretation of any elements of the terms of reference and the Action 14 minimum standard, the review of the assessed jurisdiction shall be , volume 152 , p. 17 - 18
It is possible, however, that the OECD will consider new ideas and issues in 2020. The OECD has implied in discussions with non-OECD states that there may be room for such deliberation. TAX AND DEVELOPMENT: AN UPDATE, supra note 152, at 2 ("The Inclusive Framework is already providing a venue for developing countries to raise new ideas and concerns, supported by more institutionalised regional meetings of the Framework
ACTION 14 TERMS OF REFERENCE, supra note 5
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,078
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,111
RANK
47,074
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies