Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taming Tax Competition with a European Corporate Income Tax

35 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2017 Last revised: 20 May 2018

Fabien Candau

Université de Pau et des Pays de l'Adour

Jacques Le Cacheux

Observatoire Français des Conjonctures Economiques (OFCE)

Date Written: March 23, 2017

Abstract

This article proposes an original review of the literature on tax competition, and provides new evidence concerning different types of footloose capital: the intensity of strategic interactions is three time stronger for nancial assets than for less mobile capital (e.g. industrial buildings). We also present tax optimization techniques used by Multi-National Firms (MNFs) and document some case studies regarding the foregone tax revenue due to evasion. Amounts saved by rms are comparable to the annual contributions to the EU budget by countries like the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxembourg. We estimate that the total revenue losses for the EU governments due to corporate tax avoidance amount to almost 100 billion €. After this description of the failure of the current system of taxation, this article analyzes alternative schemes such as the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) and concludes with the outlook of a European corporate income as a genuine own resource for the EU budget.

Keywords: Tax Competition, EU budget

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H61

Suggested Citation:

Candau, Fabien and Le Cacheux, Jacques, Taming Tax Competition with a European Corporate Income Tax (March 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2939938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodème , Antonio Skonieczna , Vezzani
Taxation Papers 57, Directorate General Taxation and Customs Union Posted: 2015
F Andersson , R Forslid
Tax competition and economic geography
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 5 , p. 279 - 303 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W Arulampalam , Devereux M Maffini , G
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Auerbach
Toxic Tax Deals Posted: 2016
Load more
2 Citations
María T. Álvarez-Martínez , Salvador Barrios , Diego d'Andria , Maria Gesualdo , Gaetan Nicodeme , Jonathan Pycroft
How large is the corporate tax base erosion and profit shifting? A general equilibrium approach
Economic Systems Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 167 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ioana-Laura Țibulcă
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on tax revenues in the EU
Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 2442 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,064
RANK
298,603
2 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies