Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Financing of Budget Deficits in LDCs: Re-Validation of Laffer Curve Theory

Okafor, S.O., Maduka,O.D., Ike, A.N, & Uzoechina, B.I (2017). Tax-Financing of Budget Deficits in LDCs: Re-Validation of Laffer Curve Theory. Applied Economics and Finance, 4(3), 89-101

21 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017

Samuel Okafor

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 22, 2017

Abstract

Urgent need for quick action to put Nigeria and other developing economies back to the path of economic recovery has almost imposed state of emergency on these economies. Most LDCs are faced with acute shortage of development funds due to recessions accompanying incessant crashes in international financial market. Raising existing tax rates to finance budget deficit in LDCs often generates public debate on pros and cons of such policy option. Study considered Nigeria as typical case of LDCs. Study focused on establishing the effectiveness of tax-financing of budget deficit under Laffer curve theory. Study spanned across 1970-2015. Data were analyzed using ADF, CUSUM, heteroskedasticity, multiple regression, Johansen cointegration and ECM. Results indicate that: (1) Custom and exercise duties, petroleum profit tax and value-added tax contributed significantly to the reduction in budget deficit while company income tax had nonsignificant impact (2) Total government revenue constituted major chunk of planned income for budget deficit financing (3) Deficit financing of capital health expenditure yielded high returns while that of recurrent education expenditure and capital education expenditure was accompanied by low returns (4) Growth and employment generation accelerated deficit financing while private investment decelerated it (5) There were long and short-run relationships among budget deficit, taxes, human capital investment and macroeconomic indicators with significant rate of adjustment of short-run disequilibrium. Study concluded that tax-financing of budget deficit was effective under Laffer curve effect. It was recommended, among others, that LDCs should enlarge their tax bases through inclusion, to finance budget deficit.

Keywords: deficit financing, tax-financing, fiscal deficit, Laffer curve analysis, econometric validation

JEL Classification: B22, B26, C01, E61, E62

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Samuel, Tax-Financing of Budget Deficits in LDCs: Re-Validation of Laffer Curve Theory (March 22, 2017). Okafor, S.O., Maduka,O.D., Ike, A.N, & Uzoechina, B.I (2017). Tax-Financing of Budget Deficits in LDCs: Re-Validation of Laffer Curve Theory. Applied Economics and Finance, 4(3), 89-101, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2940439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Ariyo , M I Raheem
Effect of fiscal deficit on some macroeconomic aggregates in Nigeria
African Economic Research Consortium (AERC) Posted: 1991
I Audu
The impact of external debt on economic growth and public investment: The case of Nigeria. African Institute for Economic Development and Planning (IDEP) Posted: 2004
G E Edame , O B Okoi
Fiscal deficits and economic growth in Nigeria: A chow test approach
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 748 - 752 Posted: 2015
S Gaber
Economic implications from deficit finance , volume 69 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,694
RANK
284,192
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies