Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance and Information Provision - A Field Experiment with Small Firms

Journal of Behavioral Economics for Policy, Vol. 1, No. 1, 47-54

8 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2017

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Jan Schmitz

Radboud University Nijmegen - Department of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

We report the results of a field experiment on tax compliance with small firms in Slovenia. Firms in the first treatment group received a letter that highlighted the importance of paying taxes and the likelihood of becoming subject to an audit. In the second treatment group, tax officers from the tax authorities handed out in person the same letter that companies in the first treatment group received by post. The results tentatively indicate that (i) such letters sent by post can increase compliance (relative to an untreated control group) and (ii) the personal delivery of the letter has a positive compliance effect (relative to the same letter sent by post).

Keywords: tax compliance, audits, randomized field experiment, tax authority, information provision

JEL Classification: : H20, H32, H50, C93

Suggested Citation:

Dörrenberg, Philipp and Schmitz, Jan, Tax Compliance and Information Provision - A Field Experiment with Small Firms (2017). Journal of Behavioral Economics for Policy, Vol. 1, No. 1, 47-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2941474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Balliet
Communication and cooperation in social dilemmas: A meta-analytic review. Journal of Conflict Resolution Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
139,038
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies