Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Revenue Losses Through Cross-Border Loss Offset: An Insurmountable Hurdle for Formula Apportionment?

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6368

45 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Michael Stimmelmayr

University of Bath - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: March 01, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relevance of firm losses for tax revenues and welfare when switching from separate accounting to a system of tax base consolidation with formula apportionment. We find that a system change unambiguously decreases tax revenues in the short run, in which neither firms nor governments can adjust their behavior, due to the cross-border loss offset inherent to formula apportionment. In the medium run, in which only firms can adjust their strategies, tax revenues are still lower under formula apportionment if the probability of incurring losses or the costs of profit shifting are sufficiently small. However, in the long run, where both firms and governments are able to adjust their behavior after the system change, a switch from separate accounting to formula apportionment is beneficial under the aforementioned conditions. Furthermore, we show that a higher weight of input shares in the apportionment formula may mitigate tax competition because, contrary to output factors, input factors provide an insurance against tax revenue shortfalls due to loss-making affiliates.

Keywords: separate accounting, formula apportionment, corporate losses, cross-border loss offset, CCCTB

JEL Classification: H730, H250, F230

Suggested Citation:

Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed and Stimmelmayr, Michael, Tax Revenue Losses Through Cross-Border Loss Offset: An Insurmountable Hurdle for Formula Apportionment? (March 01, 2017). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6368, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2941367 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2941367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach , M Cooper , M Knittel
Understanding U.S. corporate tax losses Posted: 2011
Crossref
B N Anand , R Sansing
The weighting game: Formula apportionment as an instrument of public policy
National Tax Journal , volume 53 , p. 183 - 200 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A J Auerbach
Why have corporate tax revenues declined? Another look
CESifo Economic Studies , volume 53 , p. 153 - 171 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Alex Cobham , Simon Loretz
International Distribution of the Corporate Tax Base: Implications of Different Apportionment Factors Under Unitary Taxation
ICTD Working Paper 27 Pages: 38 Posted: 1 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,351
RANK
687,646
5 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies