Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Reporting: How Restricted Access Exacerbates Global Inequalities in Taxing Rights

16 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2017

Andres Knobel

Tax Justice Network

Alex Cobham

Tax Justice Network

Date Written: December 8, 2016

Abstract

Fully public country-by-country reporting would enable a dramatic shift in the accountability of both multinationals and tax jurisdictions. Estimates of the losses due to tax avoidance imply that lower-income countries would benefit disproportionately, as this transparency would offer powerful leverage against the current, highly unequal global distribution of taxing rights over multinationals. The OECD’s welcome adoption of the Tax Justice Network’s original proposal is, however, critically undermined by the decision to impose multiple limits on access to the data. This paper explores these limits, and demonstrates how the resulting unequal access is likely to exacerbate, rather than ameliorate that inequality in taxing rights. A range of proposals is put forward for progressive steps by various actors, including multinationals themselves.

Keywords: country by country reporting, CBCR, automatic exchange of information, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Knobel, Andres and Cobham, Alex, Country-by-Country Reporting: How Restricted Access Exacerbates Global Inequalities in Taxing Rights (December 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2943978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2943978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
C Brooks , C Godfrey , C Hillenbrand , &amp; K Money
Do investors care about corporate taxes?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 218 - 248 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Cobham
Benefits and Costs of the IFF Targets for the Post-2015 Development Agenda
Copenhagen Consensus Center Working Paper Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Cobham
Uncounted: Power, inequalities and the post-2015 data revolution
Development , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 320 - 337 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Cobham , P Janský , &amp; S Loretz
Taxing Multinational Enterprises as Unitary Firms, International Centre for Tax and Development at the Institute of Development Studies
Load more
4 Citations
Rizky Amalia Kurnia , Dhata Praditya , Marijn Janssen
ICT Unbounded, Social Impact of Bright ICT Adoption
, volume 558 , p. 154 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Alex Cobham , Jonathan Gray , Richard Murphy
What Do They Pay? Towards a Public Database to Account for the Economic Activities and Tax Contributions of Multinational Corporations
City Political Economy Research Centre, Working Paper Series 2017/01 · 35 Pages · Posted: 9 Oct 2017 · Downloads: 190
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Markus Meinzer
Finanzethik und Steuergerechtigkeit
, p. 87 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Ajay Kumar
BEPS: Changing International Fiscal Standards and the Unchanging Fortunes of ‘Sustainable Development’
Law and Development Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 325 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,205
RANK
259,422
4 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies