Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Framework for Cost-Benefit Analysis and the Measurement of Benefit Intensity of GST Growth

35 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2017

Mohd Azhar Abdul Karim

University Putra Malaysia

Vincent B.Y. Gan

University Putra Malaysia

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

Crucial to the economic growth and fiscal management of a nation is the balancing between expenditure and taxation to increase the welfare of its citizens. The implementation of a new taxation scheme to replace obsolete and less efficient one requires care analysis between the costs and benefits of implementation. Benefits in terms of revenue are the bedrock of a functioning economy for any government wishing to progress and to implement its expenditure program. It is of great importance for policy makers to be able to measure the benefit intensity of a nation’s economy to identify regions of productive benefit growth. Evaluation of government expenditure and taxation is often measured by the traditional cost benefit analysis. Benefit intensity too has been traditionally measured in relation to national consumption growth typically as ratios. However, the widely employed benefits ratio is known to suffer from functional deficiencies that can cause mismeasurement. Furthermore, this conventional ratio is not dynamic in nature to capture changes in time. Thus, we propose two new measures in the static and dynamic. The first is a static cross sectional new measure of cost benefit which we call the Tax Gap Index (TGI). It is an index which is symmetrical, scale invariant and proportional that can provide re-liable interpretations of benefits and costs in context of the recently introduced goods and sales tax (GST) by the Malaysian authorities and is friendly to econometric analysis. The second is the dynamic index that captures growth changes in tax base and consumption which we call the Benefit Intensity of GST Growth Index (BIG). The BIG index is time dynamic and time consistent in measuring changes in the tax base, revenue growth and consumption growth of an economic sector. In cases of uncertainties and complexities arising in the measurement of costs, we illustrate the estimation exercise of these components using appropriate Monte Carlo simulation software. Extending the analysis, we further propose a national TGI/BIG measure of GST by aggregating benefits and costs across all GST categories. Policy implications include the easy monitoring of benefits and costs as the TGI/BIG index is easy to use and interpret.

Keywords: GST, VAT, Growth, Dynamic

Suggested Citation:

Abdul Karim, Mohd Azhar and Gan, Vincent Beng Yong, A New Framework for Cost-Benefit Analysis and the Measurement of Benefit Intensity of GST Growth (August 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2944549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Identification of potential evasion or corrupt sectors allows for immediate action to narrow the tax gap
Narrowing the tax gap while increasing the tax base will help ensure continuous economic
A K M Azhar , R J R Elliott , J Liu
On the measurement of product quality in intra-industry trade: An empirical test for China
China Economic Review , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 336 - 344 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A K M Azhar , R J R Elliott
On the measurement of product quality in intraindustry trade
Review of World Economics , volume 142 , issue 3 , p. 476 - 495 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
394,952
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies