Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Exemptions and Compliance with Tax and Accounting Regulations

Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research

65 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2017 Last revised: 18 Feb 2018

Jeff Downing

National Research University Higher School of Economics

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

Date Written: February 15, 2018

Abstract

We examine small firms’ compliance with tax and accounting regulations before and after a change in the threshold for mandatory auditing. Prior to 2011, all Norwegian firms were required to be audited. In 2011, a law change allowed small Norwegian firms to choose not to be audited. After this change, the Norwegian Directorate of Taxes conducted on- and off-site inspections of a representative sample of 2,117 Norwegian firms, with a focus on compliance with specific requirements in tax and accounting regulation. We use the results from these inspections to construct a compliance quality score (CQS). We find that the firms that chose to opt out of auditing have lower CQS than do firms that chose to continue to be audited; that the CQS of firms that chose not to be audited declined after opting out; and that some of the opt-out firms fully mitigated the decline in CQS by engaging external accountants or auditors to prepare their annual financial statements. The results should be of interest to regulators considering increasing the thresholds for mandatory auditing, as our results show that (i) firms that choose not to be audited can experience a decline in CQS after opting out, and (ii) CQS can be maintained at the same level as before if opt-out firms engage external consultants that assist in preparing the annual accounts.

Keywords: private firms, audit exemption, compliance, accountants, auditor

Suggested Citation:

Downing, Jeff and Langli, John Christian, Audit Exemptions and Compliance with Tax and Accounting Regulations (February 15, 2018). Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2944007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Øivind André Strand Aase
Effects of Voluntary Audit on Accounting Quality in Small Private Firms
NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/1 · 35 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 99
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Øivind André Strand Aase
Size Management in Response to Mandatory Audit Rules
NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/2 · 29 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 89
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ting Dong , Milda Tylaite , Ryan J. Wilson
Voluntary vs. Mandatory: The Role of Auditing in Constraining Corporate Tax Avoidance in Small Private Firms
Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research · 59 Pages · Posted: 20 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 206
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michele Mullaney , Bridget Stomberg , Brian Williams
Spillover Benefits of Financial Statement Audits: Evidence from IRS Enforcement Outcomes
50 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2023 · Last revised: 11 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 151
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
256,498
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies