Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Tax System as an Institutional Factor on the Business Structure in Europe

Chapter 7 In: A.S. Gubik & K. Wach (Eds.). Institutional Aspects of Entrepreneurship. Miskolc: University of Miskolc, pp. 97-109.

13 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017 Last revised: 20 Apr 2017

Zoltan Bartha

University of Miskolc

Date Written: November 20, 2015

Abstract

This chapter focuses on the influence of tax systems and taxation rules on the firm structure of the 28 European Union member economies. It is argued that higher taxes and more complex tax rules lead to smaller firms, and that, on the other hand reduces macroeconomic performance. It is found that the firm size and corporate tax rates are negatively correlated in case of mediumsized (R=-0.4; p=0.03) and large (R=-0.41; p=0.03) firms. Indications were found that higher transaction costs caused by taxation lead to smaller firms, as a significant negative correlation was found between the number of hours per year needed to administer tax payments, and the share of large firms (R=-0.41 & p=0.03), and also between KPMG’s comment length (an indicator for tax system complexity) and the share of medium-sized firms’ turnover from the total turnover (R=-0.39 & p=0.045). More complicated tax rules might also cause a smaller proportion of firms to grow quicker, but the significance level of these relationships is not very convincing.

Keywords: tax system; tax rate; institutions; firm size

JEL Classification: H21, L11

Suggested Citation:

Bartha, Zoltan, The Effect of the Tax System as an Institutional Factor on the Business Structure in Europe (November 20, 2015). Chapter 7 In: A.S. Gubik & K. Wach (Eds.). Institutional Aspects of Entrepreneurship. Miskolc: University of Miskolc, pp. 97-109., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2952244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Chongvilaivan , Y Jinjarak
Firm Size and Taxes
The Journal of the Korean Economy , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 175 Posted: 2010
A Study on R&D Tax Incentives Posted: 2014
E Dabla-Norris , M Gradstein , G Inchauste
What Causes Firms to Hide Output? The Determinants of Informality Posted: 2005
L Garicano , C Lelarge , J Van Reenen
Firm Size Distortions and the Productivity Distribution: Evidence from France Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies