Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legal Framework for Tax Compliance

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2017

39 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2017

Allen Madison

University of South Dakota Law School

Date Written: April 14, 2017

Abstract

When the time comes to file a tax return, a taxpayer must take into account the legal framework for the entire tax compliance process. This process includes determining one’s own tax liability, timely reporting and paying the liability, and considering that the taxpayer and the Service each have a limited amount of time to make changes to the initial reported amount.

The first step, determining one’s own tax liability, is no small task. Determining how much to pay the government has no natural analog as in other areas of the law. Although the idea that stealing is bad is instilled in us at such an early age that it seems natural, trying to decide how much tax to pay without guidance from the government would be fruitless. The government communicates its expectations for what each taxpayer is required to pay through statutes, administrative guidance, and judicial opinions. The substantive law is an immense body of law, and a framework for tax compliance ought to discuss how to translate it. Translating the government’s expectations for determining one’s own tax liability requires construing statutes, weighing administrative guidance, and evaluating precedent.

The second step in tax compliance is reporting and paying the tax liability. Unfortunately, these two concepts are not as interconnected as one might think so they require separate discussion. The requirements for reporting and paying have completely difference sources of law, are subject to different penalty rates for noncompliance, and are treated differently when it comes to extending due dates. A taxpayer may also amend her initial reporting. When there is an error in the taxpayer’s favor she may request a refund by filing an amended return.

The final step involves the consideration of how long the taxpayer and the Service have to ask for more money. Generally, each has three years to do so. The taxpayer has three years to claim a refund if she has overpaid, and the Service has three years to assess additional tax if the taxpayer has underpaid. These limitations periods are subject to various exceptions. These exceptions are generally more lenient on the government who legitimately needs more time to examine a taxpayer’s reporting in certain situations.

Keywords: compliance, tax, taxation, return, limitations, determination, statutes, regulations, precedent, realism, intentionalism, purposivism, textualism, guidance, deference, chevron, administrative, interpretation, legislation, planning, payment, amendmended return, refund claim, assessment, filing

JEL Classification: H1, H2, H10, H11, H13, H19, H20, H24, H26, H29, H31, K00, K3, K4, K10, K14, K19, K23, K34, K39, K40

Suggested Citation:

Madison, Allen, The Legal Framework for Tax Compliance (April 14, 2017). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2953005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,287
RANK
281,840
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies