Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Marketization of Tax Sovereignty

16 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2017 Last revised: 29 Apr 2017

Tsilly Dagan

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 15, 2017

Abstract

States are traditionally conceived of as powerful sovereigns with the capacity to make and enforce mandatory rules, impose taxes, and set redistribution. Accordingly, many policy decisions (tax policy included) are considered the domain of national sovereigns. From the traditional perspective, then, we envision a state ruled by a sovereign that is entrusted — through a political process — with exclusive tax legislative powers, aiming (at least ideally) to maximize welfare (efficiency) and justly (re)distribute it while reinforcing the underlying normative values shared by its constituents. Such a sovereign has the power and — assuming it treats its constituents justly — legitimacy to so govern.

Globalization is significantly transforming the nature of sovereignty. In this era, the conventionally-envisioned all-powerful sovereign is but one of two-hundred or more such sovereigns that compete with one another. Competition is increasingly turning states into market players that offer their goods and services to potential “customers.” In this market for sovereign goods, these states vie for capital and residents, while (at least some) taxpayers “shop around” for sovereign-provided privileges, public goods, and social and cultural goods. MNEs in particular notoriously shop around for sovereign goods and pay as little in taxes as possible. This competition seems to permeate into the very nature of tax sovereignty, altering the traditional role played by the sovereign. It impacts the kinds and quantities of public goods and privileges offered by the state to its constituents; it affects the underlying meanings and values of the sovereign-subject interaction; and it transforms modes of political participation and schemes of distribution.

Suggested Citation:

Dagan, Tsilly, The Marketization of Tax Sovereignty (April 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2953220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2953220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A classifies a transaction as an equity investment (and, accordingly, the payments as dividend distributions) and Country B classifies the same transaction a loan (and the payments as interest), then payments from B to A will be considered interest (and, hence, deductible in Country B and considered dividends by Country A). If Country A exempts dividend income or gives it preferential treatment
Google's worldwide income is channeled to an Irish subsidiary (thereby reducing Google's income in high-tax jurisdictions because the fees paid are deductible at source). The Irish corporation's income is reduced by royalty payments to another subsidiary-Google BV-thereby taking advantage of the exemption from withholding taxes within the EU. Google BV's income is stripped using almost identical royalty payments to a Bermuda company. The Netherlands imposes no withholding taxes, and Bermuda is famous for its no income tax. The result, therefore, is a near zero tax on Google's income from customers in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. For a detailed description of this tax-planning scheme see Edward Kleinbard , volume 699 Posted: 2011
For example, the right to work is often dependent on one's residency status. Residency might also determine the right to marry, the right to adopt, the right to receive social security benefits, and the right to education and medical treatment
The rules of many jurisdictions, like tax treaties, view one's place of abode to be a significant factor in determining residency for tax purposes Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,968
RANK
241,038
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bar-Ilan University Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies