Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax on the Prospects of Achieving Target Retirement Wealth in Australian Default Superannuation Plans

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(1), 2017

21 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2017

Lisa Samarkovski

Griffith University, Griffith Business School, Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Students

Richard Copp

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Osei Wiafe

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Prior empirical studies on superannuation in Australia have investigated the adequacy of superannuation to fund retirement on a pre‑tax basis. Also, government policy in this area is often predicated on simplistic assumptions and methodologies, with little or no empirical evidence of the impacts of superannuation taxation arrangements on retirement wealth and the adequacy of default superannuation plans. This “baseline” study fills this gap in the literature by providing evidence about the prospect of a representative member of a complying superannuation fund in Australia, on retirement, having sufficient accumulated superannuation to adequately fund their retirement under current taxation arrangements. We assume the fund utilises a typical default asset allocation, and we use a bootstrap simulation approach to generate relevant asset returns. We compare a representative retiree’s terminal wealth at vesting age with a nominal retirement wealth target. Our results suggest that a representative member under current superannuation taxation arrangements has a roughly 50% chance of not accumulating sufficient superannuation to meet a reasonable retirement wealth target by retirement age.

Suggested Citation:

Samarkovski, Lisa and Copp, Richard and Wiafe, Osei and Freudenberg, Brett, The Impact of Tax on the Prospects of Achieving Target Retirement Wealth in Australian Default Superannuation Plans (2017). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(1), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2954320
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies