Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the OECD/G20 BEPS Initiative Heading in the Right Direction? Some Forgotten (and Uncomfortable) Questions

Bulletin for International Taxation, Volume 71, No. 5, 2017

9 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2017 Last revised: 7 Oct 2018

Eva Escribano

Universidad Complutense de Madrid

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

This article critically analyses the scope of the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative and further raises some questions concerning the role played by certain long-standing paradigms underlying corporate income taxation in the BEPS phenomenon.

Keywords: BEPS, international taxation, permanent establishment, tax residence

Suggested Citation:

Escribano, Eva, Is the OECD/G20 BEPS Initiative Heading in the Right Direction? Some Forgotten (and Uncomfortable) Questions (May 1, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation, Volume 71, No. 5, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Mehta
Equalization Levy" Proposal in Indian Finance Bill 2016: Is It Legitimate Tax Policy or an Attempt of Treaty Dodging?
Journals IBFD analysed the functioning of the levy and its questionable compatibility with the Indian treaty network , volume 2 Posted: 2016-06
Danielle Rolfes
Treasury will not countenance fundamental changes to the permanent establishment rules, which other countries clearly want … some tweaking of the PE rules may be warranted … any tweaking should not take the form of a digital commerce PE
The OECD BEPS Project: Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy
J. Intl. Taxn , volume 1 , p. 30 - 41 Posted: 2014
Crossref
particularly the revenue-based factor and the volume of users and/or data collected of the user-based factor from the "significant economic presence" nexus and the withholding tax in respect of the difficulties in collecting it, the possibilities for circumvention, i.e. the digital factors test of the "significant economic presence" nexus, the generation of undesirable asymmetries, i.e. the withholding tax and the equalization levy
These three proposals have important weaknesses from the perspective of management, i.e
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,782
RANK
296,145
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies