Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treaties and the Taxation of Services in the Absence of Physical Presence

41 Brook. J. Int'l L. 1143 (2016)

15 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2017

Michael S. Kirsch

Notre Dame Law School

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

It is old news that modern technological developments have strained long‐standing international tax policies and principles. Tax treaties have attempted to keep pace by fitting these new developments within the existing framework. This brief article addresses one aspect of technological developments that can directly affect individual taxpayers—the increasing ability to deliver personal services electronically across borders, without the need for the service provider to have a physical presence in the “source” country. In particular, it focuses on recent developments with the U.N. Model, which may allow source‐based taxation of at least some types of services income even in the absence of the service provider’s physical presence. The article identifies a number of concerns with this approach, and suggests that this jurisdictional expansion be more narrowly tailored to address the specific concerns raised by cross‐border services.

Keywords: international tax, tax, telemedicine, telesurgery, cross-border, personal services, citizenship, treaties, globalization, offshoring, outsourcing, labor mobility, technology

JEL Classification: F22, F66, F68, H24, H26, J29, J61, K34, N70, O15, O33, O38

Suggested Citation:

Kirsch, Michael S., Tax Treaties and the Taxation of Services in the Absence of Physical Presence (2016). 41 Brook. J. Int'l L. 1143 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,958
RANK
320,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies