Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Privacy and Confidentiality in Exchange of Information Procedures: Some Uncertainties, Many Issues, But Few Solutions

Debelva F., Mosquera I. 2017. Privacy and confidentiality in exchange of information procedures: some uncertainties, many issues, but few solutions. Intertax: International Tax Review. Vol. 45 (5) , pp. 362-381

20 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2017 Last revised: 1 Jun 2018

Irma Johanna Mosquera Valderrama

Leiden University, Institute of Tax Law and Economics

Filip Debelva

KU Leuven - Tax Law Institute

Date Written: March 31, 2017

Abstract

The overall aim of this article is to analyze the taxpayers’ rights to confidentiality and privacy in exchange of information including the new global standard of automatic exchange of information. The first section will analyze the state of the art regarding the right to privacy and confidentiality in the OECD bilateral and multilateral instruments, in the Human Right Conventions and in case law by the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice. This first section will also analyze the application of the right to privacy and confidentiality in practice mainly by identifying the problems of confidentiality and privacy arising in the disclosure of information, the exchange of trade secrets and the leak of information to the press and third parties. Subsequently, the authors explore the possibility to introduce a multilateral instrument to remedy these shortcomings.

Keywords: tax, exchange of information, privacy, confidentiality, multilateral instrument

JEL Classification: D80, H25, H26, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Mosquera Valderrama, Irma Johanna and Debelva, Filip, Privacy and Confidentiality in Exchange of Information Procedures: Some Uncertainties, Many Issues, But Few Solutions (March 31, 2017). Debelva F., Mosquera I. 2017. Privacy and confidentiality in exchange of information procedures: some uncertainties, many issues, but few solutions. Intertax: International Tax Review. Vol. 45 (5) , pp. 362-381, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A H Kb Lux-Affaire ; Aujke , J J P Van Hoek &amp; Michiel , Luchtman
See for an enforcement of tax law perspective
onrechtmatig bewijs of niet? Weekblad fiscaal recht , volume 137 , p. 769 - 774 Posted: 2005
It is not yet clear whether the information provided by the whistle-blower was stolen or obtained by hacking Posted: 2017-03
Comm. Art , volume 26 , issue 3
&amp; Debelva , Diepvens
Exchange of Information. An Analysis of the Scope of Article 26 OECD Model and Its Requirements , p. 305 - 306
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
230,052
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies