Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Amazon vs. Commissioner: Has Cost Sharing Outlived Its Usefulness?

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-003

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 551

5 Pages Posted: 2 May 2017 Last revised: 13 May 2017

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

President Trump has decreed that for every new regulation, two old regulations should be repealed. The next time the IRS wishes to adopt a new tax regulation, I have two candidates for repeal: cost sharing and “check the box”, the 1997 regulation that enables US-based multinationals to shift profits from high to low tax foreign jurisdictions without triggering US tax. Both of those regulations run directly contrary to the intent of Congress in enacting Subpart F (the CFC rules) in 1961 and amending Code section 482 by adding the super royalty rule in 1986. They are the technical building blocks underlying the ability of US based multinationals to avoid US tax on profits economically earned in the US. It is high time for both of them to go.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, cost sharing

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Amazon vs. Commissioner: Has Cost Sharing Outlived Its Usefulness? (May 1, 2017). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-003, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 551, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2961235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2961235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
189,749
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies