Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Potential Distributive Effects of the Proposed Destination Based Cash Flow Tax (DBCFT)

21 Pages Posted: 4 May 2017 Last revised: 5 May 2017

David Herzig

Valparaiso University Law School; Ernst & Young

Date Written: May 4, 2017

Abstract

The House GOP Blueprint for tax reform is the most ambitious corporate tax reform since the 1930s. It cuts business tax rates and allows immediate expensing of capital outlays. It accomplishes these goals by replacing the current corporate income tax which taxes profits to a destination based cash flow tax that taxes cash flow. The tax is a move from origin or production based to destination or consumption based. As Alan Auerbach said rather than figuring out “how do you measure income...with cash flow you just follow the money.” The cash flow tax is designed to accomplish a couple big goals. First, stop the gaming done by companies like Facebook to reduce their corporate tax burden. Second, encourage equity investment over borrowing. Finally, encourage exports while increasing the tax burden on imports. To put it mildly, the plan has caused quite a reaction.

This essay considers the GOP proposals under the lens of whether the new corporate tax will disproportionately harm the lower boundaries. The new corporate income tax is being marketed as more progressive than the current corporate income tax because it will shift the tax from normal returns to supernormal returns, in other words from labor to capital. Since capital tends to be the wealthy; the tax will redistribute from the rich to the poor. In order to examine the progressivity of the proposal, I first discuss the proper comparative baseline for determining progressivity. Since the proposed tax, at first blush, appears to increase the deficit, the primary question is can the current structure ever be progressive. By cutting other social programs or raising the deficit to pay for the tax is not progressive. Then, assuming that the tax could be neutral in costs because rates can change, the essay concludes that the proposed corporate tax still fails short of being considered progressive. The distortions that continue to exist cause too much uncertainty that the distributive effects would benefit anyone but the owners of capital.

Keywords: corporate income tax, destination based cash flow tax, progressive, supernormal returns

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Herzig, David and Herzig, David, The Potential Distributive Effects of the Proposed Destination Based Cash Flow Tax (DBCFT) (May 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2963045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2963045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Neil Irwin
The Major Potential Impact of Corporate Tax Overhaul
NY TIMES Posted: 2017-01-07
Alan J Auerbach
Border Adjustment and the Dollar
American Enterprise Institute Posted: 2017-02
J Stephen , Entin
The Effect of the House GOP Blueprint for Tax Reform on the Exchange Rate of the Dollar, Tax Foundation Posted: 2017-03-31
Robert Goulder
Insuring Against Tax Reform's Downside
FORBES.COM Posted: 2017-04-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
475,660
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies