Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Taxonomy for Tax Loopholes

55 Houston Law Review 545 (2018)

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 244

63 Pages Posted: 8 May 2017 Last revised: 30 Apr 2018

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: May 5, 2017

Abstract

Democrats, Republicans, media commentators and even academics denounce “tax loopholes.” Speakers may think that they are talking about the same things, but this article demonstrates that people have widely divergent views about what tax loopholes are. Thus, people criticizing loopholes often talk past each other and engage in the tax equivalent of schoolyard name-calling. The response to this problem is not, however, to try to define the concept of “tax loopholes” with precision. Such an endeavor is pointless. Instead, this article provides a taxonomy for translating the rhetoric of “tax loopholes” into meaningful tax policy discourse. This taxonomy posits that any reference to a “tax loophole” should be understood in two dimensions — the tax policy objection and the target of the criticism. Using numerous examples from the popular/political discourse and the academic literature, this article catalogs alternatives on each dimension. Categorizing any purported “tax loophole” using this taxonomy provides a more productive framing of whatever critique is implied by any use of the “loophole” label, thereby enabling the elevation of the quality of the conversation about the individual tax preference. This taxonomy may be particularly useful now, as the debate continues about the consequences of recently-enacted tax reform.

In addition, the taxonomy can be used in the aggregate to provide insight into how groups of people perceive the tax system. As an example, this article applies the taxonomy to media references to tax loopholes (from CNN, Fox, the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times) during the eighteen months preceding the 2016 presidential election, thereby revealing how narratives about tax loopholes varied by media source and ideological perspective.

Keywords: tax, tax law, loopholes, rhetoric, tax policy, tax reform, political discourse

JEL Classification: H2, H20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., A Taxonomy for Tax Loopholes (May 5, 2017). 55 Houston Law Review 545 (2018), UC Hastings Research Paper No. 244, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2963441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
E G See , Barack Obama
I'll end the preferential treatment that's built into our tax code by eliminating corporate loopholes and tax breaks
Speech on Middle Class Tax Fairness Posted: 2007
Donald J Trump
Remarks to the Detroit Economic Club Posted: 2016-08-08
E G See , Fox News
It's not impossible
Special Report with Bret Baier (FOX television broadcast Apr , volume 18 Posted: 2016
Calmes
Mr. Obama has hardly made corporate tax reform
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
543
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,526
RANK
117,265
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies