Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of Tax Cash Flow and Tax Expense

42 Pages Posted: 18 May 2017 Last revised: 17 Mar 2019

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

Empirical evidence on the relevance of cash flows and accruals, and changes in relevance over time is mixed. We extend this literature by examining the relevance of tax cash flow and tax expense. Income taxes offer a strong setting to study relevance because firms report both an accrual-based and cash flow-based measure of tax. We find the incremental predictive power of current-period tax cash flow for future tax cash flow is greater than that of current-period tax expense for future tax cash flow. Tax cash flow also dominates tax expense in explaining returns. Together, these results suggest tax cash flow is more relevant than tax expense. Our study extends the value relevance literature by demonstrating that specific accruals behave differently than aggregate accruals. Our study also informs the FASB’s decision about whether to require increased tax cash flow disclosure.

Keywords: Valuation, tax expense, cash taxes paid, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Seidman, Jeri K. and Stomberg, Bridget, The Relevance of Tax Cash Flow and Tax Expense (March 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2964920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2964920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
B Ayers
Deferred tax accounting under SFAS No. 109: An empirical investigation of its incremental value-relevance relative to APB No
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
B Ayers , J Jiang , S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Bonsall , K Koharki , L Watson
Deciphering tax avoidance: Evidence from credit rating disagreements. Forthcoming, Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2017
R Bushman , A Lerman , X Zhang
The changing landscape of accrual accounting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , p. 41 - 77 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
225,977
4 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies