Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Stability of Tax Elasticities Over the Business Cycle in European Countries

44 Pages Posted: 12 May 2017

Melisso Boschi

Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA); Senate of the Republic of Italy

Stefano d'Addona

University of Roma Tre

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 11, 2017

Abstract

The change of national income brings about tax revenue change. This relationship is embodied in the tax elasticity and usefully estimated both for the long-run and the short-run. In this paper we show that the short-run tax elasticity - the percent change in the tax revenue in response to a one percent change in national income - changes itself according to the business cycle. Using a novel dataset of tax policy reforms on 15 European countries from 1980 to 2013, we estimate a two state Markov-switching regression model to account for possible differences in tax elasticities during different phases of the economy. The estimated difference between elasticities during booms and recessions turns out to be always statistically significant and often even economically so. Results show a clear tendency for short-run elasticities of (i) indirect taxes, (ii) social contributions, and to a lesser extent, (iii) corporate income taxes to increase in recessions. Differences in tax elasticities for personal income taxes are somehow less pronounced. Across countries, results show a tendency for larger elasticities in recessions to prevail.

Keywords: Tax elasticity, Tax policy discretionary change, Business cycle, European economy, Markov-switching regimes

JEL Classification: C24, C29, E32, E62, H20, H30

Suggested Citation:

Boschi, Melisso and Boschi, Melisso and d'Addona, Stefano, The Stability of Tax Elasticities Over the Business Cycle in European Countries (May 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Salvador Barrios , Raffaele Fargnoli
European Economy Economic Papers 419, Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs (DG ECFIN), European Commission Posted: 2010-07
Leon Bettendorf , Duncan Van Limbergen
The stability of tax elasticities in the Netherlands Posted: 2013-09
Melisso Boschi , Stefano Addona , Aditya Goenka , ; , Maria Rosaria Marino
CAMA Working Paper 20/2012, Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis
The stability of tax elasticities over the business cycle in Italy Posted: 2012
Carine Bouthevillain , Philippine Cour-Thimann , Gerrit Van De Dool
Geert Langenus
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
388,855
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies