Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Optimal Earned Income Tax Credit

- Regev, E. and M. Strawczynski (2020) "The Optimal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) Schedule: A Trapezoid or a Triangle", The Bell Journal of Economic Analysis and Policy, 20 (3), 1-16.

42 Pages Posted: 12 May 2017 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Eitan Regev

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Department of Economics; Taub Center

Michel Strawczynski

Hebrew University of Jerusalem _ Public Policy; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Eliezer Kaplan School of Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: May 12, 2017

Abstract

In this paper we characterize the optimal linear and piecewise linear EITC schedule. In the linear framework we demonstrate that in the presence of unemployment, an increase of social inequality aversion and a decrease in labor aversion both derive in a lower optimal EITC. For the piecewise linear schedule, we show that in most cases the optimal schedule is a triangle, which is at odds with actual policy, that is based on a trapezoid. According to our simulation, the use of a trapezoid instead of a triangle implies a substantial loss in terms of Social Welfare. We show that a trapezoid is optimal only when the wage distribution among the working poor is even, with a discrete jump for higher wage groups. After mimicking the wage distribution in different countries, we show that changes in the share of the "very rich" have a lower impact on the optimal EITC compared to changes in the wage variance. Finally, we show that the main impact of an increased minimum wage on the optimal EITC schedule is a more pronounced phasing out.

Keywords: Optimal EITC, trapezoid, piecewise linear schedule

JEL Classification: H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Regev, Eitan and Strawczynski, Michel, The Optimal Earned Income Tax Credit (May 12, 2017). - Regev, E. and M. Strawczynski (2020) "The Optimal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) Schedule: A Trapezoid or a Triangle", The Bell Journal of Economic Analysis and Policy, 20 (3), 1-16. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Brender , M Strawczynski
Earned Income Tax Credit in Israel: designing the system to reflect the characteristics of labor supply and poverty
Israel Economic Review , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2006
Emmanuel Peter , Saez
The Case for a Progressive Tax: From Basic Research to Policy Recommendations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 165 - 190 Posted: 2011
J Gruber , E Saez
The elasticity of taxable income: evidence and implications
Journal of Public Economics , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2002
Alexis Lehmann Etienne , Bruno Parmentier , Van Der Linden
Optimal income taxation with endogenous participation and search unemployment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 95 , p. 1523 - 1537 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
618,773
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies