Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mugging Tax Evaders: Using Transfers to Diminish Tax Evasion. An Information Processing Approach

41 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2017

Hieronymus Heyerdahl

Independent

Date Written: May 14, 2017

Abstract

Agents are required to provide the principal with a standardised receipt from all economic transactions. Taxation of the agents is based on the information on these receipts. To give the agents an incentive to comply with the procedure, the principal imposes a 'transaction tax' on all transactions where money changes possessor. The agent receiving money collects the tax from the agent supplying money. The principal subsequently claims the transaction tax and offers the agent that paid it a complete refund in return for a transaction receipt from the transaction. Together this generates an information structure and incentive mechanism that gives the principal sufficient information to perform simple but extensive bookkeeping that substantially reduces the possibilities for tax evasion and maybe also other forms of criminal economic activity.

Keywords: Tax Evasion

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Heyerdahl, Hieronymus, Mugging Tax Evaders: Using Transfers to Diminish Tax Evasion. An Information Processing Approach (May 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies