Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance and Firm Creditworthiness

52 Pages Posted: 16 May 2017 Last revised: 17 Jun 2017

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: May 5, 2017

Abstract

In this study, I provide evidence that the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets helps predict the future creditworthiness of a firm. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 109, a firm records a deferred tax asset provided it expects to generate sufficient taxable income to realize the asset in the form of tax savings in the future. If a firm does not expect to generate sufficient taxable income to realize the asset, a valuation allowance is created to reduce the balance. As a result, the valuation allowance indicates management’s expectation of future taxable income, which could be informative in predicting the ability of the firm to make future interest and principal payments on debt. Alternatively, the valuation allowance may not be informative regarding creditworthiness if it is a result of overly conservative accounting practices or if it is used as an earnings management tool. I document a negative association between material increases in the valuation allowance and contemporaneous and future changes in credit ratings, evidence that is consistent with the valuation allowance providing a summary measure of a decline in firms’ creditworthiness.

Keywords: Deferred Tax Assets, Valuation Allowance, Credit Ratings

JEL Classification: G29, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S., The Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance and Firm Creditworthiness (May 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,394
RANK
135,530
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies