Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combining Limited Liability and Transparent Taxation: Lessons from the Convergent Evolution of GmbH & Co. KG, S Corporation, LLC and Co.

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-3

85 Pages Posted: 15 May 2017 Last revised: 22 Oct 2019

Erik Röder

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: May 15, 2017

Abstract

Tax transparent limited liability entities (TTLLEs) such as the GmbH & Co. KG in Germany, the trading trust in Australia, or the S Corporation and the LLC in the U.S., can be found in many developed economies. While these entities are to a large extent functionally equivalent, their underlying legal mechanics are very different. The article traces the convergent evolution of six TTLLEs in five jurisdictions along three different paths, and describes central determinants of path dependencies. It demonstrates that the demand for TTLLEs is universal and that their availability reduces distortions caused by a traditional tax system. Furthermore, the article argues that the often reviled distortive influence of tax law on the choice of business entity, which drove the evolution of TTLLEs, sparked innovations in the law of business organizations that would probably not have occurred otherwise, or only much later. Finally, the article recommends making transparent taxation and entity taxation optionally available to all types of business entities, and suggests carefully rationalizing the organizational law of TTLLEs while maintaining the diversity of forms that has evolved.

Keywords: Limited Liability, Transparent Taxation, Business Entities, Entity Forms, Entity Rationalization, GmbH & Co. KG, LLC, LLP, S Corporation, Trading Trust, SARL, société en commandite

JEL Classification: K11, K12, K15, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Röder, Erik, Combining Limited Liability and Transparent Taxation: Lessons from the Convergent Evolution of GmbH & Co. KG, S Corporation, LLC and Co. (May 15, 2017). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,160
RANK
342,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies