Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Targeting Corporate Inversions – Are We Doing the Right Thing?

16 FLA. ST. U. BUS. REV. 47 (2017)

26 Pages Posted: 19 May 2017 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 19, 2017

Abstract

For decades now, corporate inversions have been the topic of an ongoing debate between legislators, practitioners, and academics. Since the first inversion in 1982, while often arguing on the right methods, policy, and ways, Congress, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”), and countless legislators and political affiliates have advocated against this type of transaction. However, almost thirty-five years later, there seems to have been little to no progress in hindering corporations from partaking in the infamous transaction; the number of inversions has grown nearly 150% since the first transaction. Every piece of legislation enacted concerning this behavior is met with a counter transaction that finds its way around the new law. As of 2015, over sixty companies have changed their places of incorporation to a jurisdiction outside of the United States. It remains to be seen if a way to stop transactions that give way to tax inversions truly exists, as the solution must not interfere with other economic and policy issues. Therefore, the question becomes whether or not attempting to inhibit such transactions should be pursued, and, if continued, what is the next step in regulating them?

Keywords: Tax, Corporate Tax, Tax Policy, International Tax, Corporate Inversions

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H21, H25, H26, K34, ,M1, M10, M16, F2, F20, F23, K2, K20

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron, Targeting Corporate Inversions – Are We Doing the Right Thing? (May 19, 2017).

16 FLA. ST. U. BUS. REV. 47 (2017)

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
I R C §7874 , Douglas Chiu
Inversion Subversion: Corporate Inversions and the New Federal Laws Against Them
20 FORDHAM J. CORP. & FIN. L , volume 717 Posted: 2015
Jim A Seida , William F Wempe
Effective Tax Rate Changes and Earnings Stripping Following Corporate Inversion
Corporate Inversions Aren't the Half of It, THE NEW YORK TIMES , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2004-12
Crossref
Solomon
earnings stripping has some benefits. The American subsidiary must do something with the money it borrows. It may be that it invests the money in the United States in research or plants , volume 20
Matthew Lee
The Recent Wave of Tax Inversions and Implications of the Corporate Income Tax Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,808
RANK
333,158
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies