Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Inversions: The Good the Bad and the Ugly

Fuller, Phillip and Henry Thomas. “Tax Inversions: The Good The Bad and The Ugly.” Business Quest (2017)

16 Pages Posted: 28 May 2017 Last revised: 31 May 2017

Phillip Fuller

Jackson State University

Henry Thomas

Jackson State University - Accounting

Date Written: May 24, 2017

Abstract

Tax inversions are a popular topic of discussion among politicians, consultants, news outlets, and academics. Tax inversions are not a new topic; they were discussed in the early 1990s and in the previous decade. Tax inversion is a tax strategy in which a company reincorporates in another country for tax purposes. Several U.S. firms have merged with foreign firms in order to move their headquarters out of the U.S. Firms have defended their tax inversions by saying that inversions enhanced shareholders’ wealth by increasing the firms’ efficiencies and/or reducing their corporate taxes.

The federal government has attempted to reduce and/or eliminate tax inversions. The government is concerned that tax inversions will reduce the tax base at a time when the federal government is experiencing budget deficits and the national debt is at an all-time high. Furthermore, individuals are increasingly aware of the huge financial disparity between the wealthiest members of our society and everybody else, and they believe tax inversions exacerbate this disparity in wealth.

This paper discusses the history of tax inversions along with tax inversion research, and addresses current status of inversions and possible solutions. The purpose of this paper is to help individuals better understand tax inversions.

Keywords: Tax inversions, Tax fairness, Repatriation, history, solutions

JEL Classification: K35, H25, H26, D63, G34

Suggested Citation:

Fuller, Phillip and Thomas, Henry, Tax Inversions: The Good the Bad and the Ugly (May 24, 2017). Fuller, Phillip and Henry Thomas. “Tax Inversions: The Good The Bad and The Ugly.” Business Quest (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2973473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
For Haven's Sake: Reflections on Inversion Transactions
Tax Notes , volume 95 , issue 12 , p. 1793 - 1802 Posted: 2002
Anton Babkin , Brent Glover , Oliver Levine
Are Corporate Inversions Good for Shareholders?
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming Pages: 59 Posted: 10 Dec 2015 Last revised: 16 Nov 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eugene F Brigham , R Phillip , Daves
Intermediate Financial Management, 12 th edition. Cengage Learning Posted: 2016
Anton Babkin , Brent Glover , Oliver Levine
Are Corporate Inversions Good for Stakeholders?
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
478,514
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies