Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deterrence Effect of Whistleblowing – An Event Study of Leaked Customer Information from Banks in Tax Havens

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-4

56 Pages Posted: 29 May 2017 Last revised: 23 Nov 2017

Niels Johannesen

University of Copenhagen

Tim Stolper

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 21, 2017

Abstract

We document that the first leak of customer information from a tax haven bank caused a significant decrease in the market value of Swiss banks known to be assisting with tax evasion and that the decrease was largest for the banks most strongly involved. These findings suggest that markets expected the leak to increase the perceived risk of committing and assisting with tax evasion and thus to lower both demand and supply in the market for criminal offshore banking services. This interpretation finds support in further evidence that the leak caused a sharp drop in foreign-owned deposits in tax havens.

Keywords: whistleblowing, economic crime, tax evasion, tax havens

JEL Classification: G21, H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Johannesen, Niels and Stolper, Tim, The Deterrence Effect of Whistleblowing – An Event Study of Leaked Customer Information from Banks in Tax Havens (November 21, 2017). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2976321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2976321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Andersen , N Johannesen , D Lassen , E Paltseva
Petro rents, political institutions and hidden wealth: Evidence from o¤shore bank accounts
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
2017A. Tax evasion and inequality
Crossref
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Who Owns The Wealth in Tax Havens? Macro Evidence and Implications for Global Inequality Posted: 2017
Crossref
NBER Working Paper 23805
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,971
RANK
84,371
4 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies