Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Audits as Scarecrows: Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment

109 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2017 Last revised: 9 Sep 2021

Marcelo Bergolo

Universidad de la Republica - Instituto de Economía; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Rodrigo Ceni

Universidad de la Republica

Guillermo Cruces

Universidad Nacional de La Plata (UNLP) - Centro de Estudios Distributivos, Laborales y Sociales (CEDLAS); IZA

Matias Giaccobasso

VATT Institute for Economic Research

Ricardo Perez-Truglia

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

The canonical model of Allingham and Sandmo (1972) predicts that firms evade taxes by optimally trading off the costs and benefits of evasion. However, there is no direct evidence that firms react to audits in this way. We conducted a large-scale field experiment in collaboration with Uruguay’s tax authority to address this question. We sent letters to 20,440 small and medium-sized firms that collectively paid more than two hundred million U.S. dollars in taxes per year. Our letters provided exogenous yet nondeceptive signals on key inputs for their evasion decisions such as audit probabilities and penalty rates. Using survey data, we measured the effect of these signals on firms' subsequent perceptions of the auditing process. Using administrative data, we measured their effect on actual taxes paid. We find that providing information on audits had a significant effect on tax compliance, but in a manner inconsistent with Allingham and Sandmo (1972). Our findings are consistent with an alternative model of risk-as-feeling, in which messages about audits generate fear and induce probability neglect. According to this model, audits may deter tax evasion in the same way scarecrows scare birds away.

Keywords: tax, evasion, audits, penalties, frictions

JEL Classification: C93, H26, K34, K42, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Bergolo, Marcelo and Ceni, Rodrigo and Cruces, Guillermo and Giaccobasso, Matias and Perez-Truglia, Ricardo, Tax Audits as Scarecrows: Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment (May 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2979096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2979096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D Acemoglu , M O Jackson
Social Norms and the Enforcement of Laws
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 295 Posted: 2017
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
What motivates tax compliance
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Estimating the Determinants of Taxpayer Compliance with Experimental Data
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,049
RANK
134,537
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies