Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhanced Cooperation: A Way Forward for Tax Harmonisation in the EU?

in J Englisch (ed.), International Tax Law: New Challenges to and from Constitutional and Legal Pluralism (IBFD 2016) 165–206

Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 44/2017

47 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2017

Anzhela Cédelle

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the evolution of enhanced cooperation at the legislative and judicial levels and then identifies the challenges and opportunities created by these developments in the politically sensitive field of taxation. It starts by explaining how the Treaty provisions were gradually amended to simplify the application of enhanced cooperation. Following the Treaty of Lisbon, some scholars critically maintained that ‘the procedural hurdles are still fairly high’; yet, as this contribution shows, the process of ‘liberalisation’ continued through the Court’s lenient interpretation of the Treaty provisions on enhanced cooperation. The first judgments in Spain and Italy v. Council (Joined Cases C-274 and 295/11) and UK v. Council (Case C-209/13) demonstrate that the Court joined the Treaty makers in their attempt to make the procedure more workable. The downside of this development is that greater effectiveness has been achieved through the dilution of special safeguards envisaged by the EU Treaties with regard to the use of flexible regulatory instruments in European governance. The potential impact of these changes on the dynamics of tax integration in the EU is discussed in the final section.

Keywords: Enhanced cooperation, closer cooperation, financial transaction tax, unitary patent, tax harmonisation, tax harmonization

Suggested Citation:

Cédelle, Anzhela, Enhanced Cooperation: A Way Forward for Tax Harmonisation in the EU? (October 1, 2015). in J Englisch (ed.), International Tax Law: New Challenges to and from Constitutional and Legal Pluralism (IBFD 2016) 165–206, Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 44/2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2984844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
432,122
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies