Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity and Tax Reform

Indiana Law Journal, Vol. 93, No. 3, Forthcoming

University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-15

59 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2017

Michael Hatfield

University of Washington - School of Law; University of Washington - UW Law

Date Written: May 23, 2017

Abstract

The IRS collects information on more Americans and handles more money than any other agency. The cybersecurity risks are high. This Article takes seriously both the challenges and the agency's limitations in solving those problems through technological advances. This Article describes the cybersecurity problem as a legal problem for Congress to address rather than merely a digital problem for IRS technicians. By legislation, Congress defines what information is tax relevant, and then the IRS digitally collects, stores, and process the information. Over the years, without any regard for information security, Congress has designed a tax system that requires the IRS to collect more information than it can now protect. But there is ample flexibility for Congress to reform tax law to decrease the information held by the IRS and increase the likelihood the IRS can defend it. This Article explores specific ways in which the tax laws and its administration could be changed to simplify the information needs of the IRS, making its information system both a less appealing and a more defensible cyberattack target. In short, if the tax law were simpler in specific ways, the information technology needs at the IRS would be simpler, and adequate cybersecurity for it would be easier.

Section I describes cyberattacks at the IRS and elsewhere, predicting future cyberattacks at the IRS will be similar to cyberattacks elsewhere. Section II offers a history of computer use at the IRS, arguing that this history, as well as a variety of other factors, like inadequate funding and expertise and the technical and human difficulties of cybersecurity, reveals little reason to believe the IRS will achieve appropriate cybersecurity. Section III argues that Congress should consider how potential tax reforms might make the IRS database a less appealing and a more defensible cyberattack target. This Article concludes with reflections on the relationship between law reform and the digital revolution.

Keywords: Information Technology, Computers, Data Processing, Security, Technology, IRS, Internal Revenue Service, Tax Collection, Taxes, Taxation, Hacking, Tax Reform, Privacy

Suggested Citation:

Hatfield, Michael W. and Hatfield, Michael W., Cybersecurity and Tax Reform (May 23, 2017). Indiana Law Journal, Vol. 93, No. 3, Forthcoming, University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2017-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2985123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,298
RANK
230,052
1 Citations
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies