Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxes Under Private Information: The Role of the Inflation

FRB St. Louis Working Paper No. 2017-14

34 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2017 Last revised: 9 Mar 2022

Pedro Gomis-Porqueras

Monash University

Christopher J. Waller

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; University of Notre Dame - Department of Economics

Date Written: May, 2017

Abstract

We consider an overlapping generation framework with search and private information to study optimal taxation. Agents sequentially trade in markets that are characterized by different frictions and trading protocols. In frictional decentralized markets, agents receive shocks that determine if they are going to be consumers or producers. Shocks are private information. Mechanism design is used to solve for the constrained optimal allocation. We then study whether a government can replicate the constrained optimal allocation with an array of policy instruments including fiat money. We show that if the government has a full set of non-linear taxes, then lump-sum taxes and inflation are irrelevant for the allocation. However, if the government is constrained to use linear taxes, then using the inflation tax is optimal even if lump-sum taxes are available.

Keywords: Fiat Money, Taxation, Private Information

JEL Classification: E40, H21

Suggested Citation:

Gomis-Porqueras, Pedro and Waller, Christopher J., Optimal Taxes Under Private Information: The Role of the Inflation (May, 2017). FRB St. Louis Working Paper No. 2017-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.20955/wp.2017.014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Abel
Optimal Monetary Growth
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 3 , p. 437 - 450 Posted: 1987
S R Aiyagari , S Williamson
Money and Dynamic Credit Arrangements with Private Information
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 91 , p. 248 - 279 Posted: 2000
S Albanesi , C Sleet
Dynamic Optimal Taxation with Private Information
Review of Economic Studies , volume 73 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
L Altermatt
Savings, asset scarcity, and monetary policy
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 182 , p. 329 - 359 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,262
RANK
915,095
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies