Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Payment on the Performance of SMEs: The Case of Selected SMEs in Ga West Municipal Assembly

European Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 8, No. 20, 2016

7 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Evans Tee

UPSA

Lawrence Boadi

University of Professional Studies - Department of Banking and Finance

Richard Opoku

Islamic University College, Ghana

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

Taxation plays important role in the development of every economy as well as the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). In a middle-income country like Ghana, the role of SMEs is critical in pushing the socioeconomic development agenda of the country further. Therefore, alignment of the tax system to the specific SME growth needs can be considered an important agenda for the policy makers. Keeping this issue at focus, the study aimed to explore the managers/executive officers’ perception of the tax system in Ghana on the profitability of their businesses. The study is based on a survey of 102 managers/Executive officers of the selected SMEs in the Ga West Municipality in the Greater Accra region of Ghana. The survey was administered using questionnaire and interview with the selected respondents. Data was analyzed by descriptive analysis method, correlation and regression analysis and findings were presented in terms of frequencies and percentage analysis. Findings indicate that majority of the respondents perceive the adverse impact of existing tax policies on the growth of SMEs and suggest for reforming the tax policies in the Country. The findings would help the stakeholders in designing measures to align the tax system to SMEs in a more effective manner.

Keywords: Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Tax System, Ghana

Suggested Citation:

Tee, Evans and Boadi, Lawrence and Opoku, Richard, The Effect of Tax Payment on the Performance of SMEs: The Case of Selected SMEs in Ga West Municipal Assembly (June 30, 2016). European Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 8, No. 20, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2987867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Gezim Jusufi , Fillorete Gashi-Sadiku
Impact of Fiscal Policies in Western Balkan SMEs’ Growth: Evidence from Kosovo
Central European Public Administration Review, 18(2) (2020) · 30 Pages · Posted: 21 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 111
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,852
RANK
7,492
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies