Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments: Testing the Interaction of Domestic Taxation Laws and Tax Treaties in Practice

British Tax Review, Vol. 2017, No. 2, pp. 172-203, 2017

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 17/48

34 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Celeste Black

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: June 19, 2017

Abstract

This material was first published by Sweet and Maxwell Limited in the British Tax Review as Celeste M Black, 'The Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments: Testing the Interaction of Domestic Taxation Laws and Tax Treaties in Practice' (2017) 2 British Tax Review 172 and is reproduced by agreement with the Publishers.

The adoption of the "authorised OECD approach" to the attribution of profits to a permanent establishment (PE) under the business profits article of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital has failed to produce uniformity given the persistence of the alternative relevant business activity approach. Through the analysis of a hypothetical case study involving asset dealings between a foreign PE and the enterprise head office, this article examines the interaction of the domestic law and treaty practice of two jurisdictions that are representative of different approaches to PE profit attribution, the UK and Australia. This study of intra-enterprise dealings involving inventory, depreciating assets and capital assets reveals the potential for mismatches in taxation outcomes, both overlaps and gaps, even in relation to these relatively straightforward transactions.

Keywords: International Tax, Tax Law, Permanent Establishments, Tax Treaties

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Black, Celeste, The Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments: Testing the Interaction of Domestic Taxation Laws and Tax Treaties in Practice (June 19, 2017). British Tax Review, Vol. 2017, No. 2, pp. 172-203, 2017, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 17/48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,332
RANK
133,263
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Foreign Relations & Policy Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies