Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Agency Conflicts between Firm Owners and Managers: A Review

Business Research, Volume 11, Issue 1, pp 33–76 (2018)

Posted: 21 Jul 2017 Last revised: 28 Feb 2018

Thomas Bauer

University of Vienna

Thomas Kourouxous

University of Graz

Peter Krenn

University of Graz - Center for Accounting Research

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

When analyzing the influence of taxation on agency conflicts between firm owners and managers, one can draw on theoretical principal-agent literature from various research fields. In recent years, this interdisciplinary research has grown significantly covering research with regards to optimal compensation, investment decisions, tax avoidance and transfer pricing while analyzing the effects of corporate income taxes, wage taxes, bonus taxes and shareholder taxes. Our paper provides a comprehensive review of analytical literature, that studies the influence of taxation on agency conflicts between firm owners and managers. Above and beyond summarizing research findings, we discuss how taxes are commonly implemented in agency models, derive empirical predictions, and identify research gaps for future analytical tax research.

Keywords: Analytical Tax Research, Principal-Agent Conflict, Corporate Income Taxes, Wage Taxes, Shareholder Taxes, Bonus Taxes

JEL Classification: G30, H20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Thomas and Kourouxous, Thomas and Krenn, Peter, Taxation and Agency Conflicts between Firm Owners and Managers: A Review (2018). Business Research, Volume 11, Issue 1, pp 33–76 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991540
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies