Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does the Tax Status of the Country Impact Capital Structure? Evidence from the GCC Region

Journal of Multinational Financial Management, Vol. 37-38, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2017

Akram Temimi

Qatar University - Department of Economics

Rami Zeitun

Qatar University - Department of Finance and Economics

Karim Mimouni

Qatar University

Date Written: April 28, 2016

Abstract

We investigate whether the tax status of a country has an impact on the corporate capital structure. This research question is important and timely given that the empirical literature has not reached a consensus on the effect of taxes on corporate leverage. The Gulf Cooperation Council region, which is characterized by a unique fiscal environment, provides a natural laboratory for the analysis. We find that taxes have a direct and indirect effects on leverage. The presence of taxes strengthens the effect of tangibility and GDP growth on leverage while it weakens the effect of profitability and liquidity. The relationships between firms’ growth opportunities and leverage, size and leverage do not seem to be affected by taxes. We also show that the effect of taxes is different by industry. Accordingly, controlling for the tax status of the country is important in some industries and irrelevant in others.

Keywords: Dynamic Capital Structure, Taxes, Agency Costs, Debt Conservatism Puzzle

JEL Classification: G3, G32, H2, D8

Suggested Citation:

Temimi, Akram and Zeitun, Rami and Mimouni, Karim, How Does the Tax Status of the Country Impact Capital Structure? Evidence from the GCC Region (April 28, 2016). Journal of Multinational Financial Management, Vol. 37-38, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A R Admati
The Compelling Case for Stronger and More Effective Leverage Regulation in Banking
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 43 , p. 531 - 561 Posted: 2014-06
Crossref
Anat R. Admati , Peter M. DeMarzo , Martin F. Hellwig , Paul C. Pfleiderer
Debt Overhang and Capital Regulation
Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 114, MPI Collective Goods Preprint, No. 2012/5 Pages: 42 Posted: 30 Mar 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Akbar , S U Rehman , P Ormrod
The impact of recent financial shocks on the financing and investment policies of UK private firms
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 26 , p. 59 - 70 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Zhiyong An
Taxation and Capital Structure: Empirical Evidence from a Quasiexperiment in China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 683 - 689 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,202
RANK
478,514
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies