Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Epidemiology of Tax Avoidance Narratives

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 59

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-06

34 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2017 Last revised: 27 Aug 2021

Johannes Lorenz

University of Regensburg; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Markus Diller

University of Passau

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 18, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the contagious nature of tax avoidance by examining how narratives affect tax avoiding behavior. We adapt the idea of narrative economics indicating that individuals' actions are stimulated by stories that spread within a society. We employ two types of infection models to theoretically investigate how tax avoidance schemes spread over time and vanish eventually consistent with patterns known from epidemiology. We find that general tax avoidance can persist even if its expected outcome is negative, while specific tax avoidance schemes might vanish even though their expected outcome is positive. We find empirical support for the predicted dissemination of narratives related to both general and specific tax avoidance schemes in google n-grams. Finally, we show that dissemination of specific tax avoidance schemes is attenuated by anti-narratives in (social) media. Our findings help to understand how tax avoidance spreads, under what conditions anti-avoidance measures can effectively curb tax avoidance and point towards the crucial role of transparency of enhanced enforcement by visible narratives.

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax evasion, epidemiology, contagion, SIS-model, SIR-model, n-grams

JEL Classification: H26, C73, K34

Suggested Citation:

Lorenz, Johannes and Diller, Markus and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, The Epidemiology of Tax Avoidance Narratives (August 18, 2021). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 59, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
James Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
What Motivates Tax Compliance?
In: Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
Annette / Alstadsaeter , Wojciech / Kopczuk , Kjetil Telle
Social networks and tax avoidance: evidence from a well-defined Norwegian tax shelter
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 26 , p. 1291 - 1328 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,330
RANK
212,384
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies