Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implicit Corporate Taxes and Income Shifting

74 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2017 Last revised: 12 Mar 2018

Kevin Markle

Michigan State University

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 7, 2018

Abstract

Implicit tax theory predicts that as capital moves to tax-favored investments, the expected pretax returns on those investments decrease. At the global level, this should create a positive relation between country-level tax rates and firm-level pretax returns. However, theory in income-shifting predicts reported pretax returns are inversely related to tax rates, as firms shift profits into lower-tax countries. We analytically model these two theories and empirically test our predictions in two samples of European firms: single-country firms and affiliates of multinational firms. In the sample of single-country firms, we find robust evidence of country-wide implicit taxes, but that this effect is driven by closed economies (non-EU countries). In the sample of multinational firms, we find that the effects of income shifting overwhelm the effects of implicit taxes. Our results imply that certain measures of income shifting estimated using reported profits can be understated when the effects of implicit taxes are ignored, but these effects are less problematic when the research setting includes mostly open economies. Our granular setting of multiple countries and affiliate level data helps explain prior research that finds decreasing corporate implicit tax effects over time, particularly for multinationals.

Keywords: implicit taxes, income shifting

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Markle, Kevin and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F. and Williams, Braden, Implicit Corporate Taxes and Income Shifting (March 7, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2993950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2993950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,693
RANK
136,584
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies