Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxation and Capital Structure: Evidence from Russia

8 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2017

Evgeny Ilyukhin

York University

Date Written: June 29, 2017

Abstract

The study aims to empirically analyse whether corporate taxation has an impact on firm capital structure decisions. The results based on a panel data of Russian private (non-listed), non-financial and non-state owned firms show that taxation has significant impact on firm financial leverage (negative in terms of long-term debt and positive in terms of equity). The smallest and largest firms of the sample respond more to effective tax rates. The results are robust according to the tests applied. Moreover additional empirical results are obtained for the standard capital structure determinants (size, profitability, tangibility and liquidity of assets) that contribute to the capital structure theories.

Keywords: corporate income tax, capital structure, leverage, panel data analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G32, H25

Suggested Citation:

Ilyukhin, Evgeny, Corporate Taxation and Capital Structure: Evidence from Russia (June 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,506
RANK
359,301
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies