Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of the State Corporate Income Tax: Reflections (And Confessions) of a Tax Lawyer

Richard D. Pomp, The Future of the State Corporate Income Tax: Reflections (And Confessions) of a Tax Lawyer, 16 State Tax Notes 939 (1999).

19 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2017 Last revised: 1 Sep 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Date Written: March 22, 1999

Abstract

From the perspective of a tax lawyer, this article explains why the corporate income tax is unlikely to be a main source of increased tax revenue for many states in the short term. The three factors leading to this conclusion are (1) the exploitation of weaknesses in state tax structures by tax attorneys and accountants, (2) wasteful laws drafted by legislatures intent on providing tax incentives, and (3) surreptitious tax-planning techniques. The second and third factors are sometimes linked; provisions passed by legislatures trying to incentivize economic development may encourage and facilitate exploitative tax-planning techniques.

This article questions massive tax incentives offered by states to attract corporations and spur economic growth, while recognizing the likely continuation of these policies for political reasons. The article further explains the advantages and disadvantages of the double-weighted sales factor, single sales factor, and evenly weighted formula adopted by UDITPA. The next section of the article argues in favor of combined reporting, which would eliminate certain tax planning techniques that result in a loss of tax revenue to the states. This section also explains the negative effects of state decisions to abandon worldwide combined reporting, such as the erosion of the state tax base. The article concludes by imploring state legislatures to amend and adequately maintain their tax structures, while recognizing the strong political headwinds against this type of tax reform.

Keywords: tax, taxation, policy, law, local, state, income, corporate, corporations, history, Economic Recovery Act, Tax Reform Act, practice, administration, incentives, planning, combined reporting, transfer pricing, holding companies, economics, apportionment, UDITPA, multistate, Multistate Tax Commission

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard, The Future of the State Corporate Income Tax: Reflections (And Confessions) of a Tax Lawyer (March 22, 1999). Richard D. Pomp, The Future of the State Corporate Income Tax: Reflections (And Confessions) of a Tax Lawyer, 16 State Tax Notes 939 (1999)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
RANK
687,646
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies