Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform: Eliminating the Double Taxation of Corporate Income

9 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2017

David Burton

The Heritage Foundation

Date Written: May 18, 2017

Abstract

The current tax system taxes corporate income twice. This double taxation has a pronounced negative economic impact, particularly on wages. It distorts the economy and harms productivity. The double taxation of corporate income is also inconsistent with competing concepts of proper income taxation. Congress should eliminate the double taxation of corporate income. There are three means of eliminating this double taxation in the context of an income tax. Alternatively, Congress could eliminate the double taxation of corporate income by replacing the income tax with a consumption tax.

Keywords: Tax, Corporate Tax, Corporate Tax Integration, Capital Taxation, Economic Growth, Double Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Burton, David, Tax Reform: Eliminating the Double Taxation of Corporate Income (May 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2998213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
; Internal Revenue Service , Karen Burke
Federal Income Taxation of Corporations and Stockholders in a Nutshell Posted: 2014
It might also reflect a reduction in the discount rate and improved expectations with respect to future earnings.) The capital gains tax rate varies considerably from 0 percent for lower and lowermiddle income taxpayers to 23.8 percent for long-term gains or qualified dividends and 43.4 percent for short-term gains for high-income taxpayers. Thus, the combined or integrated tax rate on corporate income can be as high as 63
The capital gain reflects increases in stock value attributable to retained earnings
Emil M Sunley
Corporate Integration: An Economic Perspective
Tax Law Review , volume 47 , p. 621 - 643 Posted: 1992
and hearing, Integrating the Corporate and Individual Tax Systems: The Dividends Paid Deduction Considered, Finance Committee
Hatch Statement at Finance Hearing on Corporate Integration Posted: 2016-05-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
RANK
330,157
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies