Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance of Accounting Rules and Tax Rules: Analysis of SMEs' Tax Avoidance Strategies

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 1(3), p. 26-34, 2013

9 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017

Hariyanti D.

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Rohaya M. N

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Accountancy

Normah Omar

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Rozainun Abdul Aziz

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Date Written: August 28, 2013

Abstract

Objective – This study examined the governance of accounting rules and tax rules on the level of tax burdens paid by SMEs in Malaysia. According to the tax gap theory, taxpayers utilize the different rules between accounting and tax which is known as the dual reporting system in their tax avoidance strategies in order to pay lower taxes. The tax gap is the difference between the statutory tax rate (STR) and effective tax rates (ETRs).

Methodology/Technique – This study analysed financial statements of 148 SMEs (740 firm-years) prepared for the years 2008 to 2012.

Findings – The statistical results revealed that the dual reporting system had caused a significant gap between the STR (the tax rate that SMEs supposed to pay) and ETRs (the actual tax rates paid by SMEs) in the Malaysia tax system. In addition, the findings provided evidence of the tax avoidance strategies utilised by SMEs which cause lower ETRs as follows: exempt income and tax incentives, disallowable expenses, absorbed losses and capital allowances, deferred tax expenses, size and leverage. Thus, the findings confirmed the tax gap theory in the SMEs tax system which implied a loss of tax revenue to the government due to tax avoidance activities.

Novelty – The findings had provided useful feedbacks to the policymakers such as accounting bodies and the relevant tax authorities to address the issue and realign the two systems which are accounting standards and tax system to minimize the gap.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Dual Reporting System, ETRs, SMEs, STR, Tax Gap

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M43, M49

Suggested Citation:

D., Hariyanti and M. N, Rohaya and Omar, Normah and Abdul Aziz, Rozainun, The Governance of Accounting Rules and Tax Rules: Analysis of SMEs' Tax Avoidance Strategies (August 28, 2013). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 1(3), p. 26-34, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
S N H Adawiyah , M N Rohaya
The dual role of auditor-provided tax services (ats) in smes tax planning
Science and Engineering Research Posted: 2012
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: Longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Derashid , H Zhang
Effective tax rate and the ındustrial policy hypothesis: Evidence from Malaysia
International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation , volume 12 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Feeny , M N Harris , M Gillman
Corporate and statutory tax rates Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,430
RANK
564,240
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies