Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Behavior of Tax Inspection Report Application User on Tax Performance Approach Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) on Tax Office Madya Makassar

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(3) 2014. 35-41

7 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Tenriwaru

Hasanuddin University

Amiruddin Amiruddin

Hasanuddin University

Grace T. Pontoh

Hasanuddin University

Date Written: August 26, 2014

Abstract

Objective – This study aims to determine the impact of tax inspectors behavior observed of dimensional perception of convenience and expediency perception Tax Application Inspection Report (ALPP) on the performance of tax inspection on the Tax Office Madya.

Methodology/Technique – Methology usingMultiple linear regression analysis. The research data was obtained from questionnaires given to related parties in the KPP Madya from the examination and the public. Samples were obtained by the method of random sampling.

Findings – Based on the total sample of 50 respondents obtained partial results of the study that each variable utilization and ease of use of ALPP significant effect on the performance of tax inspection with TAM approach. Simultaneously two independent variables (utilization and ease of use) has a significant effect on the performance of tax inspection.

Novelty – The important role technology that affect the performance at the individual level are described in the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM). The core of this model is to make information technology a positive impact on the individual performance of these technologies should be exploited and the technology must be in accordance with the type of work performed.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Utilization, Ease of Use and Performance of Tax Audits

JEL Classification: H83, M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Tenriwaru and Amiruddin, Amiruddin and Pontoh, Grace Theresia, The Impact of Behavior of Tax Inspection Report Application User on Tax Performance Approach Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) on Tax Office Madya Makassar (August 26, 2014). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(3) 2014. 35-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Desnis Adam , Nelson Ryan , Todd Peter
Perceived of Uselfulness, Ease of Use, and Usage of Information Technology: Management Information System
MIS Quertely , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 21 Posted: 1992
Crossref
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Understanding Attitudes and Predicting Social Behavior Posted: 1980
F S Davis
Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of use, and Acceptance of Information System Technologi Posted: 1989
Crossref
W H Delone , E R Mclean
Information System Success; The Quest For The Dependent Variable
Information System Research Posted: 1992-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
775
RANK
812,770
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies