Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxes and the Market Response to Earnings Announcements

50 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2017 Last revised: 4 Aug 2018

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Bradley P. Lindsey

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

William J. Moser

Miami University

Mahmoud Odat

University of Technology, Sydney

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the stock price and trading volume effects of differential capital gains taxes applied to short and long-term capital gains when firms disclose public information. We extend the theoretical framework developed in Shackelford and Verrechia (2002) linking differential CGT to price and volume, allowing for positive and negative news and incorporating exogenous non-taxable, uninformed traders. Our model, like SV, indicates that price responses to public information are magnified and volume inhibited during tax capital gain tax regimes in which the difference between short-term capital gains tax rates and long-term capital gains tax rates are larger. However, the degree of magnification/inhibition for price reaction and trading volume differs across multiple well-defined regions of public signal and supply change realizations. We use actual stock price and trading data to empirically investigate these predictions. Our results provide strong support for the price response predictions, but at best marginal support for the volume predictions.

Keywords: Shareholder Taxes, Stock Price, Earnings Suprise, Earnings Response Coefficient

JEL Classification: C02, G12, G14, H24

Suggested Citation:

Clinch, Greg and Lindsey, Bradley P. and Moser, William J. and Odat, Mahmoud, Capital Gains Taxes and the Market Response to Earnings Announcements (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
B Ajinkya , P Jain
The behavior of daily stock market trading volume
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 331 - 359 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J Blouin , D Smith Raedy , Shackelford
Capital gains taxes and equity trading: Empirical evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 611 - 651 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Blouin , L Hail , M Yetman
Capital gains taxes, pricing spreads, and arbitrage: Evidence from cross-listed firms in the U
S. The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 1321 - 1361 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C Clifford
Value creation or destruction? Hedge funds as shareholder activists
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 323 - 336 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
653,956
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies