Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law and Social Norms in Mandatory Palestine and Israel

Tax Law and Social Norms in Mandatory Palestine and Israel, New York: Cambridge University Press, 2017

Posted: 30 Aug 2017

Assaf Likhovski

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 20, 2017

Abstract

This book describes how a social-norms model of taxation rose and fell in British-ruled Palestine and the State of Israel in the mid-twentieth century. Such a model, in which non-legal means were used to foster compliance, appeared in the tax system created by the Jewish community in 1940s Palestine and was later adopted by the new Israeli state in the 1950s. It gradually disappeared in subsequent decades as law and its agents, lawyers and accountants, came to play a larger role in the process of taxation. By describing the historical interplay between formal and informal tools for creating compliance, Tax Law and Social Norms in Mandatory Palestine and Israel sheds new light on our understanding of the relationship between law and other methods of social control, and reveals the complex links between taxation and citizenship.

Keywords: Legal History, Taxation, Social Norms, Tax Compliance, Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, Mandatory Palestine, Israel, Fiscal Citizenship

JEL Classification: A11, A12, A13, A14, A20, B1, B2, E62, F54, H24, H26, K34, K42, M41, N45, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Likhovski, Assaf, Tax Law and Social Norms in Mandatory Palestine and Israel (July 20, 2017). Tax Law and Social Norms in Mandatory Palestine and Israel, New York: Cambridge University Press, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3007301
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies