Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Pay or Not to Pay? Business Owners’ Tax Morale: Testing a Neo-Institutional Framework in a Transition Environment

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017

Tomasz Mickiewicz

Aston University - Aston Business School

Anna Rebmann

University College London

Arnis Sauka

Stockholm School of Economics, Riga

Date Written: July 25, 2017

Abstract

In order to understand how the environment influences business owner/managers’ attitudes towards tax morale, we build a theoretical model based on a neo-institutionalist framework. Our model combines three complementary perspectives on institutions—normative, cultural–cognitive and regulatory–instrumental. This enables a broader understanding of factors that influence business owner–managers’ attitudes towards tax evasion. We test the resulting hypotheses using regression analysis on survey data on business owner/managers in Latvia—a transition country, which has undergone massive institutional changes since it was part of the Soviet Union over 25 years ago. We find that legitimacy of the tax authorities and the government (normative dimension), feeling of belonging to the nation (cultural–cognitive dimension) and perceptions of the risk and severity of punishment (regulatory–instrumental dimension) are all associated with higher tax morale for business owners and managers.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Informal economy, Identity, Institutions, New institutionalism, Business owners/managers, Tax evasion, Tax morale, Trust

Suggested Citation:

Mickiewicz, Tomasz Marek and Rebmann, Anna and Sauka, Arnis, To Pay or Not to Pay? Business Owners’ Tax Morale: Testing a Neo-Institutional Framework in a Transition Environment (July 25, 2017). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
D Acemoglu , J Robinson
Why nations fail Posted: 2012
I Ajzen
Nature and operation of attitudes
Annual Review of Psychology , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1974
Crossref
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax morale and tax compliance from the firm's perspective
Kyklos , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
10 Citations
Aidan Collymore
The Perception of the Ethics of Tax Evasion in the United Kingdom
37 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 348
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Branko LJ. Radulovic
Morality of Informality: Tax Morale in the Serbian Business Sector – an Empirical Investigation
Industrija, 47(1), 43-60, 2019 · 18 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aidan Collymore
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Literature Review
11 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1,107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aidan Collymore
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Study of Opinion in the United Kingdom
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 21(2): 201-245, 2020 · 45 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 728
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,361
RANK
505,351
10 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies