Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Untangling the Worldwide VAT Web on Digital Supplies

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017

35 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Madeleine Stiglingh

University of Pretoria - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

The imposition of value‑added tax (VAT) style consumption taxes on so‑called digital supplies is a challenge that has been made necessary by general trends of globalisation and the change in patterns of supply and consumption in the modern economy. Part of this challenge relates to the complexities associated with the supply of intangibles, and this complexity is exacerbated by the fact that many such supplies take place across international borders. Tax systems have long been attempting to meet such challenges and these efforts have been redoubled as a result of the OECD/G20 motivated base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) initiatives aimed at reducing opportunities to minimise taxation using cross‑border structures and arrangements. At the same time, the OECD has been proactive in developing guidelines, for application internationally among OECD members, affecting the imposition of the VAT laws. The most common recent efforts to deal with cross‑border supplies of intangibles have been the burgeoning examples of the so‑called “Netflix tax”. This is a tax on consumption that might initially be thought to tax consumption of movies, electronic games and similar forms of entertainment.

This article will review the VAT laws applicable to cross‑border provision of so‑called digital supplies in a selection of jurisdictions, namely, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and Canada. The authors will critically analyse the taxes on digital supplies in those jurisdictions and determine the extent to which they comply with, or depart from, the OECD guidelines.

Suggested Citation:

Walpole, Michael and Stiglingh, Madeleine, Untangling the Worldwide VAT Web on Digital Supplies (April 1, 2017). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008982
Purchase - $45
10 References
GST: cross-border services, intangibles and goods" (2015), a government discussion document
This example is actually given in New Zealand Inland Revenue Posted: 2016-09
S 8b
)(b) of the Goods and Services Tax Act 1985 (NZ)
S 8b
)(c) of the Goods and Services Tax Act Posted: 1985
S 8b
)(f) of the Goods and Services Tax Act Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,376
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies