Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Taxation on Dividend Policy of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (2006-2015)

EPH - International Journal of Business & Management Science, 2017

30 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 25, 2017

Abstract

The study considers the effect of taxation on the dividend policy of banks in Nigeria. The study was set out to determine the relationship between dividend and taxes and to find out whether taxes affect the dividends of the quoted deposit money banks in the Nigerian Stock Exchange from 2006 to 2015. Three specific objectives were derived. In pursuance of the objectives of this study, ex-post facto research design was adopted. The study made use of secondary data obtained from the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) publications, fact books, annual reports and account of the selected quoted banks. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using Pearson coefficient of correlation, and Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression. The result of this study reveals that there is a negative significant relationship between tax and dividend policy. More so, that tax has statistically significant effect on dividend policy of banks. This study recommends amongst others, that management of banks should design a dividend policy that will better the lots of shareholders and maximize the value of the bank.

Keywords: Taxation, Dividend Policy, Investment Decisions

JEL Classification: L25, M40, M50

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Taxation on Dividend Policy of Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (2006-2015) (March 25, 2017). EPH - International Journal of Business & Management Science, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
RANK
80,750
10 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies