Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GST/VAT General Anti‑Avoidance Approaches: Some Preliminary Findings from a Comparative Study of Australia and South Africa

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017

22 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017

Kalmen H. Datt

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Gerhard Nienaber

University of Pretoria - Department of Taxation

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

The goods and services tax (GST) or value‑added tax (VAT) is the most rapidly spreading tax in the world. It accounts for a high proportion of tax revenue in both developing and developed countries. Despite its importance, there is a paucity of studies concerning GST/VAT avoidance. This article attempts to contribute to this relatively small body of literature by comparing and evaluating GST/VAT general anti‑avoidance approaches in Australia and South Africa. Both countries have a similar common law heritage and adopted a similar GST/VAT model, although the tax commenced at different times in each country and the two taxes have slightly different bases. An examination of the Australian and South African GST/VAT anti‑avoidance approaches reveals some interesting findings. The analysis undertaken by the authors suggests that, although there are differences in style in the drafting of the anti‑avoidance rules, the effect of each appears to be similar in both countries. There would appear to be two differences. First, the Australian Commissioner of Taxation has a discretion, if the Commissioner thinks it fair and reasonable, to make a compensating adjustment to the other party to the transaction if that party is disadvantaged by the Commissioner’s determination. Second, the “do nothing” defence which has been negated in Australia may possibly still be available in South Africa.

Suggested Citation:

Datt, Kalmen H. and Nienaber, Gerhard and Tran-Nam, Binh, GST/VAT General Anti‑Avoidance Approaches: Some Preliminary Findings from a Comparative Study of Australia and South Africa (April 1, 2017). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008980
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies