Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Voluntary Tax Compliance Increase after Granting Tax Amnesty?

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 11-17

7 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017

I Made Sudarma

University of Brawijaya

I Nyoman Darmayasa

Bali State Polytechnic

Date Written: July 7, 2017

Abstract

Objective – The main objective of this study is to explore the meaning of voluntary tax compliance by a person after they are granted tax amnesty.

Methodology/Technique – This research is qualitative research and uses a transcendental phenomenology method.

Findings – The results show that tax compliance does not automatically increase after a grant of tax amnesty. The reason for this is the fact that taxpayers wish to avoid being tax audited. Tax amnesty is therefore not yet useful in build trust in the tax authority. Tax authorities need to convince the public that tax amnesty creates justice for all taxpayers. The power of the tax authority is useful to strengthen law enforcement measures. Furthermore, fundamental moral and ethical considerations based on internalization, spirituality and religion tend to improve taxpayers’ honesty.

Novelty – The trust and power of a tax authority that is in line with taxpayers’ honesty is fundamental voluntary to tax compliance. The results of this research demonstrate the need for new tax policies to increase voluntary tax compliance.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Moral Ethics; Tax Amnesty; Transcendental Phenomenology; Trust; Voluntary Tax Compliance

JEL Classification: H20, H21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sudarma, I Made and Darmayasa, I Nyoman, Does Voluntary Tax Compliance Increase after Granting Tax Amnesty? (July 7, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 11-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
G M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , W Beck
Tax Amnesties and Compilance in a Long Run
National Tax Journal , volume 46 , issue 11 , p. 53 - 60 Posted: 1993
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , S Wallace
Do Tax Amnesties Work? The Revenue Effects of Tax Amnesties During the Transition in the Russian Federation
Economic Analysis and Policy , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 235 - 253 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Why do people pay taxes
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
662
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,488
RANK
90,955
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies