Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating VAT Compliance Costs – A Developing Country Perspective

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017

34 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017

Sharon Smulders

University of South Africa

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

The large‑scale presence and the regressive nature of tax compliance costs, especially those in respect of the value‑added tax (VAT), are well documented features of the tax systems of developed countries. Although there is less evidence available in the case of developing countries, empirical studies strongly suggest that enterprises in these countries face similar problems. In this article, legal design and administrative features and other strategies adopted by governments and their revenue authorities in developed and developing countries to mitigate VAT compliance costs are considered and contrasted. The proposition that governments and revenue authorities in developing countries have learnt from developed countries and deployed more sophisticated technical and automated solutions will thus be evaluated. The article also highlights the benefits and importance of minimising the division between the legal and administrative design approaches to mitigating high VAT compliance costs. It concludes by making suggestions on further interventions that could be considered by developing countries to mitigate VAT compliance costs, perhaps improve compliance and therefore boost much needed VAT revenues.

Suggested Citation:

Smulders, Sharon and Evans, Christopher Charles, Mitigating VAT Compliance Costs – A Developing Country Perspective (April 1, 2017). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(2), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009003
Purchase - $45
38 References
African Tax Administration Forum , p. 45 - 57
J Harju , T Matikka , T Rauhanen
The effect of VAT threshold on the behavior of small businesses: evidence and implications Posted: 2015
L Liu , Lockwood
VAT notches Posted: 2015-05-31
a threshold of SEK 30,000 (approximately US$3,320) was introduced (C Grape (PwC), "VAT exemption for organisations and companies with limited current sales
PwC Tax Matters Posted: 2016-12-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies