Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Enforcement and Voluntary Tax Disclosure

Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2017 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Anne Ehinger

Florida State University

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Erin Towery

University of Georgia

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

Although voluntary tax disclosures can improve firms’ information environments and reduce financial statement users’ costs of processing complex tax information, they can also inform tax authorities about tax avoidance strategies. This study explores the content of voluntary tax disclosures during quarterly earnings announcements and conference calls to examine the effect of IRS enforcement on managers’ voluntary tax disclosure decisions. We estimate a negative relation between IRS enforcement and voluntary tax disclosures that is concentrated in the subset of firms with high levels of tax avoidance. These results are consistent with managers having concerns about the potential costs of voluntary disclosures to tax authorities. In supplemental analysis, we find results consistent with voluntary tax disclosures benefiting analysts, but at the cost of increasing IRS attention. Collectively, our results suggest an unintended negative effect of IRS enforcement on the information environment.

Keywords: Tax enforcement; Voluntary disclosure; Tax avoidance; Proprietary costs

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ehinger, Anne and Lee, Joshua A. and Stomberg, Bridget and Towery, Erin, IRS Enforcement and Voluntary Tax Disclosure (October 1, 2023). Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3009390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Comments on Schedule M-3 with the objective of reducing burden and duplication Posted: 2011
B Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
L S Bamber , Y S Cheon
Discretionary management earnings forecast disclosures: Antecedents and outcomes associated with forecast venue and forecast specificity choices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 190 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,381
RANK
99,991
12 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies