Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Formula Apportionment: Factor Allocation and Tax Avoidance

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2017

Sebastian Eichfelder

Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg

Frank Hechtner

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Jochen Hundsdoerfer

Free University of Berlin (FUB); Norwegian Center for Taxation; ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Date Written: July 31, 2017

Abstract

This paper addresses the question of how firms react to tax incentives in a formula apportionment (FA) tax regime. Under FA, the profits of all consolidated entities of a business group are summed and then allocated according to a formula based on FA factors. We hypothesize that firms may change the allocation of real production factors and/or manipulate the FA factor through tax avoidance strategies. Analysing FA tax effects of the German local business tax with payroll expense as the exclusive FA factor, we find empirical evidence consistent with both hypotheses. Regarding the allocation of production factors, we observe significant tax effects on labour input at the intensive margin but not on labour input at the extensive margin. In addition, we find evidence of an indirect FA spillover effect on capital investment. Our findings on tax avoidance proxies are consistent with tax-induced manipulations of payroll expense as an FA factor to save tax payments.

Keywords: Factor Allocation, Formula Apportionment, Profit Shifting, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: H32, H71, H73, J61

Suggested Citation:

Eichfelder, Sebastian and Hechtner, Frank and Hundsdoerfer, Jochen, Formula Apportionment: Factor Allocation and Tax Avoidance (July 31, 2017). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3011407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Formula apportionment: Is it better than the current system and are there better alternatives?
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , p. 1145 - 1184 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B N Anand , R Sensing
The weighting game: Formula apportionment as an instrument of public policy
National Tax Journal , volume 53 , p. 183 - 200 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B H Baltagi
Econometric analysis of panel data Posted: 2013
J Becker , C Fuest
Tax enforcement and tax havens under formula apportionment
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 17 , p. 217 - 235 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,440
RANK
545,548
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies