Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion, Money Laundering and Tax Transparency in the EU Overseas Countries and Territories: Ex-Post Impact Assessment

Reference no. PE 593.803. Brussels: European Parliamentary Research Service, European Parliament

180 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017 Last revised: 22 Nov 2017

Isabelle Ioannides

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Institute for European Studies; European Parliament - European Parliamentary Research Service (EPRS)

Jan Tymowski

Independent

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

This study aims to present the legal, political and institutional framework governing offshore practices in the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) of the European Union, which fall under the sovereignty of four Member States: Denmark, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. It contains an opening analysis that defines the key concepts, including tax evasion, money laundering and tax transparency; outlines the scope of the study (to differentiate the OCTs from other places often mentioned within the context of offshore financial services); and briefly describes the particular case of Greenland. In addition, a comparative analysis of the legal, political and institutional framework governing EU relations with and within the respective OCTs is complemented by an overview of the EU framework and opportunities for action. This aspect can be of significance, especially in view of the UK’s announced withdrawal from the European Union. The detailed annexed contributions covering the OCTs under French, Dutch and British rule, and which constitute a basis for this analysis, were written by external experts.

Keywords: European Union, international tax cooperation, tax evasion, money laundering, tax transparency, Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs)

Suggested Citation:

Ioannides, Isabelle and Tymowski, Jan, Tax Evasion, Money Laundering and Tax Transparency in the EU Overseas Countries and Territories: Ex-Post Impact Assessment (April 1, 2017). Reference no. PE 593.803. Brussels: European Parliamentary Research Service, European Parliament, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3012511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
. . . Acronyms
Crossref
. . . Executive Summary
Crossref
. . . Uk Octs
III-150 1.1. The UK OCTs and those relevant for the report
III-152 1.3. Scope and sources of the paper
Load more
2 Citations
Laura Panadès-Estruch
Building Cruise Berthing Facilities in the Cayman Islands: an Unfinished Drama in Three Acts
Études caribéennes , issue 47 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Gregor Novak
International Development Law: Thematic Series
, p. 727 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
375,525
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies