Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Motivated Payout Financing

46 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2017 Last revised: 22 Sep 2017

Nan Liu

Peking University

Naqiong Tong

Peking University

Alan Tucker

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 22, 2017

Abstract

Many firms, even those that are cash rich, routinely engage in costly borrowing and, more rarely, equity issuance in order to finance their payouts. A reported motive for this payout-financing behavior is the sheltering of corporate income tax. We present a model of a firm that maximizes its after-tax cash flow through jointly selecting the amount of its profits to recognize in a foreign tax haven and the amount of new capital it raises. The firm is subject to fixed payouts as well as a constraint on raising new capital. Consistent with U.S. tax law, the firm cannot use foreign-recognized earnings to finance payouts without triggering domestic taxation. The model shows that under certain benign conditions it may be optimal to raise external capital to meet payouts rather than using internally-generated cash flow. Consistent with this shelter-finance-payout strategy, we find that sticky-dividend firms that have more foreign earnings subject to repatriation taxes use more debt to finance their ordinary dividends. In addition, sticky-dividend firms that are tax aggressive use more debt to finance their ordinary dividends. Finally, sticky-dividend firms that are tax aggressive use more debt to finance their ordinary dividends if their domestic tax rate (cost of borrowing) is high (low).

Keywords: Tax aggression; repatriation tax; payout policy; dividend policy; share repurchase

JEL Classification: G32, K34

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Nan and Tong, Naqiong and Tucker, Alan, Tax Motivated Payout Financing (September 22, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3018949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3018949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Bernard , J Jensen , P Schott
Transfer pricing by U.S.-based multinationals Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Bird , A Tucker
Tax sham or prudent investment: A deconstruction of the government's pyrrhic victory in Salina v
Commissioner. Virginia Tax Review , volume 22 , p. 231 - 287 Posted: 2002
J Blouin , L Krull
Bringing it home: A study of the incentives surrounding the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Dharmapala , C Foley , Forbes , K
Watch what I do, not what I say: The unintended consequences of the Homeland Investment Act
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 753 - 787 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
610,038
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies