Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Induced Fiscal Year Extension and Earnings Management

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2017

42 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2017 Last revised: 1 Jun 2018

Dennis Sundvik

Hanken School of Economics

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – The aim of this study is to examine three different responses to the Finnish 2005 tax reform that, among other things, reduced the corporate tax rate and hiked dividend taxation. Focus lies on the factors influencing the decision to change the fiscal year-end and whether earnings management is more prevalent when the decision is not taken.

Design/methodology/approach – This study uses the financial statement data of Finnish private firms and studies 350 fiscal year-end changing firms and 700 non-changing firms with logistic and linear regression analysis. Discretionary accruals are the proxy for earnings management.

Findings – The results suggest that firms seize the window of opportunity and extend fiscal years depending on the magnitude of the expected tax savings. Firms that do not change their fiscal yearend engage in more tax-induced earnings management. In terms of economic consequences, the earnings management approach is less economically significant.

Research limitations/implications – This study only examines a limited number of firms that change their fiscal year-end, hence, care has been exercised in generalising the findings.

Practical implications – The findings may be considered when structuring future tax reforms, particularly when considering transition rules relating to changes in fiscal year-ends. The study may also have implications beyond tax reforms since the evidence of opportunistic changes in the fiscal year-end can be informative for tax authorities, independent auditors and creditors.

Originality/value – This study contributes to the relatively scarce literature on private firm responses to tax policy changes by analysing both upward and downward earnings management, as well as changes in the fiscal year-end. This is in contrast to previous research that mainly focuses on listed firms and absolute earnings management or earnings management in one direction.

Keywords: Tax reform, Earnings management, Finland, Fiscal year-end, Private firms, Tax planning

JEL Classification: M41, K43

Suggested Citation:

Sundvik, Dennis, Tax-Induced Fiscal Year Extension and Earnings Management (August 1, 2017). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3022316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
F Blasch , A J Weichenrieder
When taxation changes the course of the year: Fiscalyear adjustments and the German tax reform of 2000-01
Fiscal studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 367 - 377 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M J Calegari
The effect of tax accounting rules on capital structure and discretionary accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Callao , J I Jarne
Have IFRS affected earnings management in the European Union? , volume 7 , p. 159 - 189 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J V Carcello , C Hollingsworth , S A Mastrolia
The effect of PCAOB inspections on Big 4 audit quality , volume 23 , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
649,413
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies