Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case Against Income Taxation of Multinational Enterprises

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 36, p. 143, 2017

62 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2017

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: January 21, 2017

Abstract

Probably the most uncontroversial thing that one can say about international taxation is that it is a mess. Sophisticated planning techniques, which seem beyond the power of taxing authorities to control, enable highly profitable multinational enterprises (MNEs) to pay little or no tax on their income. Efforts by transnational organizations to coordinate action in an attempt to rescue the international tax regime from collapse have hitherto proven ineffective. Some commentators have speculated that any attempt to impose tax on MNEs in a globalized economy is doomed to failure.

The focus of this article is in the taxation of foreign MNEs by the countries in which they operate, and its thesis is that the choice of income as a base for taxing foreign MNEs is inappropriate both normatively and practically. It asserts that the normative grounding for income tax in the domestic arena is inapplicable to foreign MNEs. It suggests that, relative to other tax bases, income tax increases the chances that the host country will deter investments that could have contributed to the welfare of its residents and that it will attract investments that constitute a net drain on its economic resources. It posits that, relative to alternative tax bases, income tax destroys economic value. Perhaps most importantly, it argues that the planning techniques exploited by MNEs are essentially an agency cost deriving from the use of income as a tax base and that the best, perhaps the only, way to prevent this agency cost is to abandon the income tax and to adopt an alternative tax base.

Keywords: tax, taxation, international, international taxation, globalization, efficiency, welfare, global welfare, competition, tax competition, investment, race to the bottom, BEPS, base erosion, profit shifting, distributive justice, income tax, tax base, corporations, agency cost, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K34, H21, H25, H20, F00, F60

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, The Case Against Income Taxation of Multinational Enterprises (January 21, 2017). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 36, p. 143, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Court Of Justice
59 TAX L. REV , volume 65 Posted: 2005
Integrated Tax Policy Approach to Designing Research & Development Tax Benefits, 34 VA. TAX REV , volume 109 Posted: 2014
Piercing the Veil of Secrecy: Securing Effective Exchange of Information to Remedy the Harmful Effects of Tax Havens, 45 VAND
Hedda Leikvang , volume 298 Posted: 2012
Deepak See , Max H Malhotra &amp; , Negotiation Bazerman , Genius
, volume 6 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,167
RANK
249,957
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies