Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Devil is in the Detail: An Analysis of VAT Compliance Costs for SMEs in a Developing Nation

(2017). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 23(2): 176-203

28 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2017

Nahida Faridy

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: August 20, 2017

Abstract

Higher compliance costs for a value-added tax (VAT) through excessive government regulations are often portrayed as one of the important factors that affect small and medium enterprises (SME), resulting in potentially significant non-compliance and under representation in terms of their registration for VAT and their contribution to the VAT revenue collected. However, while the existing literature makes reference to estimating VAT compliance costs for SMEs in developed economies, there is little detailed evidence of its impacts on developing economies such as Bangladesh. This study utilises a mixed methods approach involving both compliant and non-compliant VAT payers to estimate the VAT compliance costs for SMEs in Bangladesh across a number of characteristics. The results demonstrate that VAT compliance costs for Bangladeshi SMEs are regressive and that manufacturers have a higher burden of monetary compliance costs followed by those in the trading sector. The study also finds that as the size of business increases, the VAT compliance costs for compliant taxpayers increase as compared to non-complaint taxpayers. The analysis and policy recommendations emerging from these findings may provide some useful lessons for Bangladesh and other developing countries in designing a better VAT regime for SMEs.

Keywords: GST, VAT, compliance cost, Bangladesh, SME

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H221

Suggested Citation:

Faridy, Nahida and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, The Devil is in the Detail: An Analysis of VAT Compliance Costs for SMEs in a Developing Nation (August 20, 2017). (2017). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 23(2): 176-203, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3023066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
318,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies