Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Value Added Tax on the Growth and Development of Nigeria Economy: Imperative for Reform

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2016

16 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2017

F. Adegbie

Babcock University

Jayeoba Olajumoke

Babcock University

Jerry Kwarbai

Babcock University

Date Written: Nov 7, 2016

Abstract

Value Added Tax (VAT) is a consumption tax that is being charged and embraced by many developed and developing countries, which is relatively easy to administer and very difficult to evade. The economic development and growth of any nation depends on government ability to generate adequate revenue in order to effectively provide various infrastructural facilities to satisfy the needs of the population and takes its position among the nations in the global village. The global oil glut has adversely affected the revenue position of Nigeria. The over 60% drop in oil price to below $40 per barrel was unanticipated by the government. This has resulted to over 80% fall in the yield (spread) per barrel of oil produced in Nigeria, steep decline in the country’s revenue, 2016 budget deficit of over N2trillion, continuing devaluation of the Naira, slowing Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, reduced inflow of foreign direct investment, rising inflation and growing unemployment. The government at the federal level has put a stop on capital projects, while allocation to the states of the federation has reduced resulting in the inability of many states provide relevant infrastructural facilities and pay workers’ salaries ranging from five months to eight months. It is therefore very clear that there is the need to diversify the revenue base of the nation, and Value Added Tax (VAT) is a major revenue source of advanced nations of the world, which much attention is not focused on this area by the federal government of Nigeria. The main focus of this work was to evaluate the impact of VAT on Nigerian economy between its introduction to date to discover the imperativeness of its reform. Ex-post-factor, descriptive and analytical research approach were adopted for the work. Data of VAT and GDP were obtained from 1994-2015, and analyzed to determine the relationship that has been existing between them. It was discovered that VAT has a positive relationship with GDP. The coefficient of the model indicate that a 1% increase in VAT will lead to a 0.88% increase in GDP. This shows a perfect positive correlation between VAT and GDP. It therefore becomes imperative for a reform in VAT. In conclusion, VAT is due for a total reform in rate and clear definition of exempted goods and services. We recommend that the current 5% should be review upward to a minimum of 10%, Integrated Tax Offices should be strengthened to increase efficiency and effectiveness, Federal Inland Revenue Service should address tax evasion, government should use VAT revenue judiciously to encourage tax payers and government should clearly define excempted goods and services so as to charge vatable goods that are currently not vatable.

Keywords: Administration, Development, Growth, Reform, Optimal Tax, Integrated

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

F., Adegbie and Jayeoba, Jumoke Olamide and Kwarbai, Jerry Danjuma, Assessment of Value Added Tax on the Growth and Development of Nigeria Economy: Imperative for Reform (Nov 7, 2016). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M A References Abata
The Impact of Tax Revenue on Nigerian Economy (A Case of Federal Board of Inland Revenue
Journal of Policy and Development Studies , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 121 Posted: 2014
Crossref
O Adebiyi
Indirect Taxes in Nigeria.Lagos.Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) Posted: 2014
S A Adereti , J A Adesina , M R Sannin
Value Added Tax and Economic Growth Of Nigeria
European Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 455 - 471 Posted: 2011
A S Bakare
Value Added Tax and Output Growth in Nigeria
Proceding of 8 th Annual London Business Research Conference Posted: 2013-07-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,720
RANK
44,039
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies