Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Tax Evasion Be Justified?: A Behavioural Study

19 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017

Sumit Kumar Maji

University of Burdwan - Department of Commerce

Date Written: August 23, 2017

Abstract

Tax evasion is the deliberate and intentional effort on the part of the tax payers by the way of misrepresentation or concealment of the true state of the income to the tax authorities to reduce tax liability or to avoid the tax liability by the adoption of unfair means like declaring less incomes, profits or gains than actually what they have earned or overstating expenses etc. The present study has been carried out to unearth the underlying reasons or the ethics of tax evasion in the opinion of the tax practitioners, PG students of the Department of Commerce, BU and Teachers of BU to evaluate the impact of tax evasion on the economy as per the tax practitioners and to find out the methods to curb tax evasion in accordance with the tax professionals. The result of the study suggested that the ethics of the tax evasion were high rate of taxes, lack of awareness, prevalence of corruption and the inefficiency of the tax administration. As far as the effects of the evasion are concerned majority of the respondents held the opinion that tax evasion has significant negative implications towards the economy by augmenting the inflation, reducing the fund available for the public expenditure etc. The result of the study also suggested that the tax evasion can be curbed by the suggested ways such as by reducing the complexity of the tax procedures, by reducing the tax evasion, by implementing the anticorruption laws, by increasing the vigilance except the cancellation of the registration of the tax practioners.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Inflation, Anticorruption Laws, Tax Awareness, Ethics of Tax Evasion, Ethics, Public Expenditure

Suggested Citation:

Maji, Sumit Kumar, Can Tax Evasion Be Justified?: A Behavioural Study (August 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3024959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3024959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Abdul-Razak , C J Adafula
Evaluating taxpayers attitude and its influence on tax compliance decisions in
Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 48 - 57 Posted: 2013
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of public economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , D M Bruner , M Mckee
Honesty or dishonesty of taxpayer communications in an enforcement regime
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 56 , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A G Awan , A Hannan
The Determinants of Tax Evasion in Pakistan: a Case-Study of Southern Punjab
International Journal of Development and Economic Sustainability , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 50 - 69 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
275,235
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies