Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Integrity of the Tax System after BEPS: A Shared Responsibility

Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2017

17 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: August 28, 2017

Abstract

The international tax system is the result of the interaction of different actors who share the responsibility for its integrity. States and multinational corporations both enjoy to a certain extent freedom of choice with regard to their tax behaviour – which entails moral responsibility. Making, interpreting and using tax rules therefore is inevitably a matter of exercising responsibility. Both should abstain from viewing tax laws as a bunch of technical rules to be used as a tool without any intrinsic moral or legal value. States bear primary responsibility for the integrity of the international tax system. They should become more reticent in their use of tax as regulatory instrument – competing with one another for multinationals’ investment. They should also act more responsibly by cooperating to make better rules to prevent aggressive tax planning, which entails a shift in tax payments from very expert taxpayers to other taxpayers. Here, the distributive justice of the tax system and a level playing field should be guaranteed. Multinationals should abstain from putting pressure on states and lobbying for favourable tax rules that disproportionally affect other taxpayers – SMEs and individual taxpayers alike. Multinationals and their tax advisers should avoid irresponsible conduct by not aiming to pay a minimalist amount of (corporate income) taxes – merely staying within the boundaries of the letter of the law. Especially CSR-corporations should assume the responsibility for the integrity of the tax system.

Keywords: flawed legislation, tax privileges, tax planning, corporate social responsibility, tax professionals

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans, The Integrity of the Tax System after BEPS: A Shared Responsibility (August 28, 2017). Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3026295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Russo , J Van Trigt
Corporate Governance and Taxes
Tax Assurance Posted: 2015
Tax Vbdo , Transparency
Posted: 2015
J Hasseldine , G Morris
Corporate Social Responsibility and Tax Avoidance: A Comment and Reflection
Accounting Forum , volume 37 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Freedman
Defining Taxpayer Responsibility: In Support of a General Anti-Avoidance Principle
British Tax Review , p. 335 - 341 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,206
RANK
42,846
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies