Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Tax Regulation, International Standards and the GATS: Argentina—Financial Services

TILEC Discussion Paper No. 2017-033

28 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017

Panos Delimatsis

Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC); Tilburg Law School

Bernard Hoekman

European University Institute - Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies (RSCAS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Economic Research Forum (ERF)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 17, 2017

Abstract

Can a WTO Member discriminate against foreign suppliers of services located in jurisdictions that refuse to share information with a government to permit it to determine if its nationals engage in tax evasion? Does it matter if the Member uses standards developed by an international body as the criterion for deciding whether to impose measures? In Argentina—Financial Services the WTO Appellate Body held that services from jurisdictions that share financial tax information may be different from services provided by jurisdictions that do not cooperate in supplying such information. It overruled a Panel finding that measures to increase taxes on financial transactions with non-cooperative jurisdictions were discriminatory. We argue that the AB reached to the right conclusion on the basis of the wrong arguments; that it missed an important opportunity to clarify what WTO Members are permitted to do to enforce their domestic regulatory regimes; and increased the scope for confusion and future litigation by considering that the likeness of services and service suppliers may be a function of prevailing domestic regulatory regimes.

Keywords: tax evasion; tax havens; international regulatory cooperation; information exchange, transparency

JEL Classification: F38, F51, G28, H26, H87

Suggested Citation:

Delimatsis, Panagiotis and Hoekman, Bernard, National Tax Regulation, International Standards and the GATS: Argentina—Financial Services (August 17, 2017). TILEC Discussion Paper No. 2017-033, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3026094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3026094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Marcelo Bergman
Tax Evasion and the Rule of Law in Latin America: The Political Culture of Cheating and Compliance in Argentina and Chile Posted: 2009
Carlo Cantore
Shelter from the Storm": Exploring the Scope of Application and Legal Function of the GATS Prudential Carve-Out'
Journal of World Trade , volume 48 , p. 1223 - 1269 Posted: 2014
Carlo Cantore
Carve-outs for Prudential Measures and Trade in Financial Services: The GATS and Preferential Trade Agreements Posted: 2015
Thomas ; Cottier , Panagiotis Delimatsis , Nicolas Diebold
Article XIV GATSGeneral Exceptions
Max-Planck Commentaries on World Trade Law , volume 6 , p. 287 - 328 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
302,340
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies