Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and the Peer-to-Peer Economy

IMF Working Paper No. 17/187

37 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2017

Aqib Aslam

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Research Department

Alpa Shah

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: August 2017

Abstract

The growth of the peer-to-peer (P2P) economy over the last decade has captivated both stock markets and policymakers alike. While the means for transacting might be different to existing firm structures-with the emergence of digital platforms that connect individual buyers and sellers directly-the tax behavior of individuals operating in this new economy are very familiar. What is clear is that while the P2P economy has potentially exacerbated existing policy, administrative, and revenue-mobilization challenges associated with small business taxation-such as the choice of the tax base and how to set tax thresholds-, the technology behind P2P platforms presents a valuable opportunity to eventually solve them.

Keywords: JEL Classification Numbers: D23, D47, H2, L1 Keywords: Digital platforms, direct tax, indirect tax, peer-to-peer markets, tax compliance, transaction costs, Digital platforms, Market Design, General

JEL Classification: D23, D47, H20, L10

Suggested Citation:

Aslam, Aqib and Shah, Alpa, Taxation and the Peer-to-Peer Economy (August 2017). IMF Working Paper No. 17/187, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3030778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Mark Armstrong
Competition in Two-Sided Markets
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 668 - 91 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Anthony B Atkinson , Joseph E Stiglitz
The Design of Tax Structure: Direct versus Indirect Taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 6 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Saif Benjaafar , Guangwen Kong , Xiang Li , Costas Courcoubetis
Peer-to-Peer Product Sharing: Implications for Ownership, Usage and Social Welfare in the Sharing Economy
Pages: 74 Posted: 6 Oct 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anne Bernhardt
Labor Standards and the Reorganization of Work: Gaps in Data and Research Posted: 2014
Load more
3 Citations
Pechnipa Dominique Lam
Thailand’s E-Commerce Ecosystem: Understanding Business Formalization Within the Framework of Tax and Consumer Protection Regulations
Economic Research Institute for ASEAN and East Asia book publication, 2020 · 50 Pages · Posted: 13 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lyla Latif
The Challenges in Imposing the Digital Tax in Developing African Countries
Latif, L. THE CHALLENGES IN IMPOSING THE DIGITAL TAX IN DEVELOPING AFRICAN COUNTRIES [2019] Journal of Legal Studies and Research Vol 5, Issue 3 · 33 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Upalat Korwatanasakul
The Role of Digitalisation in Enterprise Formalisation and Global Value Chain Participation
TECHIS-D-22-00553 · 22 Pages · Posted: 14 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
373,668
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies