Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Pay Our Fair Share? How Perceived Influence Over Laws Affects Tax Evasion

The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 42, No. 1, Spring 2020

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-66

Posted: 5 Sep 2017 Last revised: 18 Mar 2020

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: May 15, 2019

Abstract

We examine how the relation between taxpayers and their government affects tax evasion. Specifically, we examine how perceived influence over government policymaking affects firms’ decisions to evade tax. We argue that firms are less willing to comply with tax laws when they perceive the influence over their government to be unfavorable to them or the result of an unfair policymaking process. Consistent with this argument, we find that firms evade more tax when other domestic firms have more perceived influence over domestic government policymaking. This suggests a potential negative externality of lobbying: higher tax evasion by other firms. However, government effectiveness or lack of corruption eliminates the positive relation between evasion and perceived influence over policymaking. Our study is the first to document the relation between perceived influence over government policymaking and tax evasion, and our results suggest that limiting domestic firms’ influence over policymaking could help governments decrease tax evasion.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Tax Morale, Quality of Government, Perceived Influence, Procedural Fairness

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven and Williams, Brian, Why Pay Our Fair Share? How Perceived Influence Over Laws Affects Tax Evasion (May 15, 2019). The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Vol. 42, No. 1, Spring 2020, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-66, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3030127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3030127
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,337
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies