Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Does the Carrying Out of Transactions for Consideration Give Rise to an Economic Activity Relevant for VAT Purposes? An Insight into the Relationship between the Notions of Consideration and Income According to the Court of Justice of the EU

(2017) 6 World Journal of VAT/GST Law 1

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 59/2017

24 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2017 Last revised: 28 Nov 2017

Matteo Mantovani

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 24, 2017

Abstract

The difference between consideration and income is relevant for VAT purposes. A supply of goods or a provision of services is subject to VAT if it is carried out for consideration. An activity is economic when it is carried out for the purposes of obtaining income on a continuing basis. Supplying goods or services for consideration does not mean that such an activity is economic for VAT purposes and the person who carries it out is a taxable person. To this end, income has to be yielded from the activity. The Court of Justice of the European Union has recently addressed the issue of the difference between income and consideration in two similar cases. Starting from these cases, the article analyses the concepts of consideration, economic activity and taxable person, and their mutual relationships, with a view to explaining when carrying out transactions for consideration gives rise to an economic activity relevant for VAT purposes and, as a consequence, the person who runs the activity becomes a VAT taxable person.

Keywords: VAT, consideration, income, taxable person, economic activity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Mantovani, Matteo, When Does the Carrying Out of Transactions for Consideration Give Rise to an Economic Activity Relevant for VAT Purposes? An Insight into the Relationship between the Notions of Consideration and Income According to the Court of Justice of the EU (August 24, 2017). (2017) 6 World Journal of VAT/GST Law 1, University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 59/2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
burden of the VAT due or paid in the course of all his economic activities' so that, 'all economic activities, whatever their purpose or results
J , Florian Stefanek , Janina Stefanek
Posted: 2015
Crossref
Article 168 of the VAT Directive provides that, as a general rule, only a taxable person is entitled 'to deduct … from the VAT which he is liable to pay [output VAT] the VAT due or paid to him in respect of supplies to him of goods or services carried out or to be carried out by another taxable person
Alan Schenk , Victor Thuronyi , Wei Cui
Value Added Tax: A Comparative Approach , volume 152 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
RANK
623,124
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies