Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing Contending Interests: A Focus on Tax Harmonisation and Associated Policy Issues

(Dec 2013) Vol. 17 University of Botswana Law Journal 37-53

20 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2017

Ifeanyichukwu Azuka Aniyie

Independent; Independent

Date Written: December 31, 2013

Abstract

The essay seeks to examine the option of tax harmonisation as a means of achieving the integration of a developing country to the comity of nations. Although the essay summarises Nigeria’s tax harmonisation status, it attempts to highlight some of the cost and benefits associated with tax harmonisation. With the understanding that: (a) striking the right balance is a great challenge for governments when designing tax policies,1(b) tax harmonisation can be adopted for diverse reasons, and (c) the adopted tax policy option determines and reflects the relationship between the citizens, the state and the market (municipal and international); it concludes inter alia that in determining and developing tax policies, states should take cognisance of their peculiarities.

That is; with reference to tax harmonisation, the order should be, first determine the reason (and possibly the need) for the harmonisation before deciding on the degree/route or instrument to adopt for the purpose of harmonisation.

Keywords: DTAs, Nigeria, Tax Harmonisation,Treaty Network

JEL Classification: H2, K34, O55

Suggested Citation:

Aniyie, Ifeanyichukwu Azuka and Aniyie, Ifeanyichukwu Azuka, Balancing Contending Interests: A Focus on Tax Harmonisation and Associated Policy Issues (December 31, 2013). (Dec 2013) Vol. 17 University of Botswana Law Journal 37-53 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3034673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,083
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies