Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Related Implications of Fair Value Accounting

Forthcoming in: The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting and Reporting, Edited by: Livne, Gilad and Garen Markarian. London: Routledge

23 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2017

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: September 14, 2017

Abstract

This paper discusses tax implications of fair value accounting. We first provide an overview over existing tax systems in Europe and the United States and the use of fair value elements for tax purposes. We also discuss potential costs and benefits of implementing fair value taxation. Benefits of using fair value accounting for tax purposes, for example, comprise fewer distortions of investment decisions. However, there are also potential downsides of fair value based taxation. For example, tax payments of firms could become more counter-cyclical and firms might have to pay taxes on unrealized gains. Taken together, our paper provides an overview of costs and benefits of fair value taxation as well as potential avenues for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Jacob, Martin, Tax Related Implications of Fair Value Accounting (September 14, 2017). Forthcoming in: The Routledge Companion to Fair Value in Accounting and Reporting, Edited by: Livne, Gilad and Garen Markarian. London: Routledge , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3036857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3036857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,190
RANK
334,743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies