Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the Transfer of Tax History Enhance Later Field Life Transactions in the UKCS?

60 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2017

Alexander G. Kemp

Aberdeen Centre for Research in Energy Economics and Finance, University of Aberdeen

Linda Stephen

University of Aberdeen - Business School

Date Written: July 28, 2017

Abstract

To maximise economic recovery from the UK Continental Shelf it is generally agreed that assets should be in the hands of those investors who are best willing and able to achieve this. Transactions in mature fields in the UKCS should therefore not be discouraged by the tax system. This study compares the post-tax remaining net present value of mature fields from the perspective of both potential sellers and buyers with emphasis on the comparative tax relief for decommissioning costs. The economic modelling was conducted on (1) a set of representative model fields, and (2) a set of representative real fields. It was found that when the asset transactions took place in late field life the effective decommissioning tax relief for the buyer was often less than that for the seller, resulting in the remaining NPV of the buyer being less than the remaining NPV of the seller, thus discouraging the asset transaction. Transfer of the tax history of the seller to the buyer as an element in the transaction can remove this discouraging feature.

Keywords: Financial simulation modelling, Economic limit, Decommissioning tax relief, Transfer of tax history

JEL Classification: D21, G17, G18, Q35, Q47

Suggested Citation:

Kemp, Alexander G. and Stephen, Linda, Can the Transfer of Tax History Enhance Later Field Life Transactions in the UKCS? (July 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3036379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3036379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,081
RANK
880,951
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies