Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flexibility in Income Shifting Under Losses

The Accounting Review, Vol. 93 No. 3, 2018

Posted: 20 Sep 2017 Last revised: 22 Jul 2018

Arnt Hopland

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: July 7, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the flexibility of multinational firms to adjust their income-shifting strategies -- whether using transfer pricing or internal debt -- during the tax year to react to affiliates' operating losses. We develop the concept that under flexibility, multinationals can adjust their inter-affiliate payments ex post (i.e., after financial outcomes are revealed, but before the end of the tax year), to minimize worldwide tax payments. Without flexibility, multinationals must commit to their affiliates' income-shifting strategies ex ante (i.e., before financial outcomes are revealed). Our central prediction is that under ex-post income shifting, loss affiliates report lower transfer prices and internal leverage than profitable affiliates; under ex-ante income shifting, affiliates report the same transfer prices and internal capital structure, regardless of making losses. Using novel data on direct transfer payments and internal debt of Norwegian affiliates, we find empirical evidence that transfer pricing, particularly related to user fees, but not internal debt, provides flexibility to adjust income shifting ex post. In additional tests, we confirm that our results reflect flexibility rather than loss affiliates' poor performance. Our study should interest tax policymakers and researchers by identifying how various mechanisms allow multinational firms to shift income when they face losses.

Keywords: income shifting, losses, debt shifting, transfer prices

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H87

Suggested Citation:

Hopland, Arnt and Lisowsky, Petro and Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed and Schindler, Dirk, Flexibility in Income Shifting Under Losses (July 7, 2017). The Accounting Review, Vol. 93 No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3038891
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,941
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies