Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Burden, Tax Incentives and Entrepreneurial Development: Evidence from Benin City, Nigeria

Chapter 33 of The Proceedings of the 2017 Faculty of Management Sciences International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD)

14 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2017

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ikponmwosa Igbinovia

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Date Written: July 26, 2017

Abstract

The study examines the perception of some Entrepreneurs in Benin City, Nigeria with a view to finding out their take on Tax Burden, Tax Incentives and Entrepreneurial development in Nigeria as well as investigating the relationship between Tax Burden, Tax Incentives and Entrepreneurial development. Using a cross sectional survey research design, data were elicited from the responses of 140 respondents using a research questionnaire consisting of structured questions on a 5 point likert scale, revealing varying preferences and degrees of agreement with certain questions and assertions. Using the Spearman’s rho correlation and the Ordinary Least Square (OLS) Regression technique for analysis, we found that most respondents believe Tax burden is a disincentive to entrepreneurial development as a negative significant relationship was observed. We also found among other things that there is a positive but insignificant relationship existing between Tax incentives and Entrepreneurial development. We therefore recomme48331nd that instead of seeking ways to reduce the present tax burden, government should explore ways of ameliorating the effects of high tax burden on entrepreneurs. This includes providing needed infrastructure like power/electricity needed for entrepreneurship to thrive, formulating favorable policies and ensuring peace and stability in governance amongst others.

Keywords: Tax Burden; Tax Incentive; Entrepreneur; Pioneer Legislation; Infrastructure; Entrepreneurial Development

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Igbinovia, Ikponmwosa, Tax Burden, Tax Incentives and Entrepreneurial Development: Evidence from Benin City, Nigeria (July 26, 2017). Chapter 33 of The Proceedings of the 2017 Faculty of Management Sciences International Conference on African Entrepreneurship and Innovation for Sustainable Development (AEISD) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
J O Anyanduba
Tax burden and the Economy Posted: 2014
S A Babatunde
Significance of Tax Incentives and Infrastructural Development on Entrepreneurship in Nigeria
The Nigerian Accountant , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 4 - 13 Posted: 2014
Mina Baliamoune-Lutz , Pierre Garello
Tax Structure and Entrepreneurship
IREF Working paper N° 1/2011, Pages: 43 Posted: 29 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N Bosma , V Schutjens
Mapping entrepreneurial activity and entrepreneurial attitudes in European regions
International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 213 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
292,525
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies