Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The CCCTB Relaunch: A Critical Assessment and Some Suggestions for Modification

22 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2017

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

Winds of change have been blowing through the world of international company taxation, with company tax planning and country tax competition increasingly attracting questions from the general public, the media, politics and academia. The most systemic corporate tax reform proposal in the EU so far has come from the European Commission: on 25 October 2016, as part of a broader package of corporate tax reforms, the Commission released proposals for a Council Directive on a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) and a Council Directive on a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB), thus relaunching its original CCCTB proposal of 16 March 2011 in two stages. The CCTB/CCCTB proposals have not, however, been particularly warmly welcomed in the EU Member States. The Commission regards the CCCTB as the holistic solution for BEPS issues in the EU, while the impact assessment it presented stated that the expected economic benefits of a CCCTB for the internal market would be slightly positive (assuming an absence of tax planning under a CCCTB and tax rate adjustments in EU Member States to stabilise corporate tax revenues). Yet various EU Member State parliaments raised formal objections to the CCTB/CCCTB proposals, while others were very critical, but did not formally issue an objection. The objections raised show that at least a number of Member States are quite explicit in considering the proposals to fall outside EU competences. What has gone wrong? How come a perceived holistic and growth-friendly solution to a societally relevant problem is facing such political resistance in the EU Member States, or at least in a significant number of them? This paper asks whether the CCTB/CCCTB proposals adequately respond to societal calls for a properly functioning company taxation system in the EU; in other words, a system that reflects the spirit of the internal market, as well as the needs and interests of the individual EU Member States? If the answer to this question is negative, how, then, should we seek to tax multinationals in the internal market?

Keywords: Company Taxation, Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, Formulary Apportionment, Internal Market

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris, The CCCTB Relaunch: A Critical Assessment and Some Suggestions for Modification (March 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E G See , A Lee , Sheppard
The Digital Economy and Permanent Establishment', 70 Tax Notes International 297 Posted: 2013-04-22
Charles Mclure
Alternatives to the concept of permanent establishment
CESifo Forum , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 10 - 16 Posted: 2000
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
International Taxation of Electronic Commerce
Tax Law Review , volume 507 Posted: 1996
Pinto
, volume 32 , p. 266 - 279
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,772
RANK
133,263
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies