Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The ATAD's GAAR: A Pandora's Box?

13 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2017

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper elaborates on the provision on tax abuse in the EU’s Anti Tax Avoidance Directive (‘ATAD’): the general anti-abuse rule (‘GAAR’). The GAAR allows EU Member States to disregard for company tax purposes any non-genuine arrangements that have been put in place to defeat the object or purpose of applicable tax legislation with a view to reducing the effective tax burden. This EU Member States are required to transpose it into their domestic laws by 1 January 2019. Substantively, the provision has been lifted from anti-abuse doctrines found in primary EU law and anti-abuse provisions found in secondary EU law. However, the language in the legislative text seems able to be interpreted in a much more extensive way than its counterpart doctrines in primary EU law are currently interpreted. When interpreting the concept of abuse in the field of the treaty freedoms, the CJEU has so far consistently held that tax abuse is absent in the presence of economic substance, i.e., regardless of whether the legal arrangements are driven by any tax motives. The GAAR provision in the ATAD, however, suggests a weighing of tax motives and non-tax motives, thus implying that abuse may be present even in the presence of economic substance or, in other words, that a legal arrangement or series of arrangements may constitute tax avoidance if the economic substance involved – in terms of relative size or importance – does not outweigh that of the tax benefits sought. This means that the ATAD’s GAAR could potentially extend to cover a much wider range of scenarios than traditional CJEU anti-abuse case law and hence could potentially add a whole new dimension to anti-tax avoidance approaches in the EU. If called upon, the CJEU could either stick to its classical primary EU law anti-abuse doctrines or perhaps – encouraged by societal developments and a widened legislative provision – choose to broaden the scope of these doctrines and, therefore, lower the bar for EU Member States wishing to counter any perceived undue use of the tax system. Did the EU Member States perhaps open a Pandora’s box when they adopted the Directive provision?

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Abuse, Company Taxation, General Anti Abuse Rule

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris, The ATAD's GAAR: A Pandora's Box? (May 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shu-Chien Chen
Predicting the ‘Unpredictable’ General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) in EU Tax Law
InterEULawEast: Journal for the International and European Law, Economics and Market Integrations, Vol. 5, Issue 1, 2018 · 30 Pages · Posted: 6 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2018 · Downloads: 345
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
629
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,288
RANK
97,125
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies