Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Brazilian Allowance for Corporate Equity Reduce the Debt Bias? Evidences of Rebound Effect and Ownership-Induced ACE Clientele

Research in International Business and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Sep 2017 Last revised: 27 Sep 2017

Marcio Telles Portal

Mackenzie Presbyterian University; University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS)

Luis Laureano

ISCTE - Lisbon University Institute - School of Business

Date Written: September 22, 2017

Abstract

We analyse if the Brazilian Allowance for Corporate Equity (ACE-type system) reduces the debt tax bias. Specifically, we study if the continuous treatment effect of interest on equity negatively affects the level of financial leverage. We find that the tax policy implemented is similar to the deductible cash dividends and not to an ACE. The empirical implication is that the interest on equity treatment increases the debt tax bias, producing a rebound effect to what is expected for this policy on the risk-taking behaviour and corporate capital structure. This rebound effect is homogeneous in firms with different financial constraints status. There are evidences that shareholders influence the cash distribution policy, adjusting the later to their own tax preferences. Therefore, there may be an “ACE clientele effect” induced by heterogeneity in tax preferences among shareholders.

Keywords: Capital structure, Dividend, Financial constraints, Taxation, Equity tax shield, Corporate governance, risk taking, interest deduction, financial regulation, leverage

JEL Classification: G32, G35, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Portal, Marcio Telles and Laureano, Luís, Does Brazilian Allowance for Corporate Equity Reduce the Debt Bias? Evidences of Rebound Effect and Ownership-Induced ACE Clientele (September 22, 2017). Research in International Business and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040880
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies