Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Response to Government Attacks on Tax Shelters

International Journal of Financial Research Vol. 8, No. 1; 2017

17 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2017

Noel Brock

Eastern Michigan Univeristy

Edward J. Schnee

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Shane Stinson

University of Alabama

Date Written: January 9, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effectiveness of four federal government actions, all of which were designed to curb the proliferation of corporate tax shelters dating back to the 1990s, at eliciting measurable changes in characteristics commonly associated with tax shelter firms. Our results suggest that the government’s initial attacks on corporate tax shelters in the early 2000s elicited significant declines in book-tax differences, discretionary accruals, and the use of Big N audit firms, which contributed to gradual reductions in the estimated likelihood of tax sheltering for both multinational and purely domestic firms. Conversely, later attempts to discourage corporate tax shelters proved ineffective, likely due in part to the effectiveness of previous government attacks and a faltering economy. This study addresses calls from prior literature for a better understanding of factors determining corporate tax avoidance and offers new evidence of multi-faceted taxpayer reactions to corporate tax reform.

Keywords: Circular 230, corporate tax avoidance, reportable transactions, tax reform, tax shelters

JEL Classification: K34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Noel and Schnee, Edward J. and Stinson, Shane, The Corporate Response to Government Attacks on Tax Shelters (January 9, 2017). International Journal of Financial Research Vol. 8, No. 1; 2017 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3041435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Dan Amiram , Andrew M. Bauer , Mary Margaret Frank
Tax Avoidance at Public Corporations Driven by Shareholder Taxes: Evidence from Changes in Dividend Tax Policy
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 61 Posted: 18 Jul 2012 Last revised: 20 Dec 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A J Auerbach , K A Hassett
The 2003 Dividend Tax Cuts and the Value of the Firm: An Event Study
Taxing Corporate Income in the 21st Century Posted: 2007
Crossref
K J Crocker , J Slemrod
Corporate tax evasion with agency costs
Journal of Public Economics , volume 89 , issue 9 , p. 1593 - 1610 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P M Dechow , R G Sloan , A P Sweeney
Detecting Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
RANK
528,080
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies