Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Treating Partners as Employees: Risks to Consider

Journal of Accountancy, 2014

6 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2017

Noel Brock

Eastern Michigan Univeristy

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

More and more businesses, including partnerships, are awarding equity interests to valued employees to keep them. Partnerships often are unaware that even a small equity interest can stop the new partner from continuing to be treated as an employee for tax purposes. Failure to treat these partners correctly can have numerous adverse tax effects, such as overpaying FICA tax, causing benefits paid on the partner’s behalf to be taxable to the partner, and accelerating the taxation of certain bonus payments. Other risks include problems with state tax apportionment formulas and miscalculating the Sec. 199 domestic production activity deduction. Although several planning techniques are available to avoid this problem, none are without shortcomings.

Keywords: Partnership, Employee, Parter as employee

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Noel, Treating Partners as Employees: Risks to Consider (August 1, 2014). Journal of Accountancy, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3041458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
RANK
719,188
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies