Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Disclosure Characteristics Improve Analyst Forecast Accuracy?

Posted: 28 Sep 2017

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Date Written: September 25, 2017

Abstract

This study provides new evidence about how tax footnote disclosure characteristics can alleviate errors in analyst forecasts of a firm’s effective tax rate (ETR). Despite the importance of income taxes to a firm’s bottom line, prior studies indicate that analysts and investors do not fully grasp the complexities of income taxes. Additionally, the FASB is interested in improving the effectiveness of financial statement footnotes and is evaluating the income tax footnote as part of the Disclosure Framework Project. I find that disclosures containing more quantitative information, less jargon, fewer complex words, and/or less legal terminology alleviate analysts’ ETR forecast errors related to complexity in income tax accounting. Collectively, my findings provide evidence regarding the areas of accounting for income taxes that make forecasting ETRs difficult and the disclosure characteristics that aid analysts’ understanding of tax information and thereby improve their ETR forecasts.

Keywords: disclosure effectiveness, income tax footnote, effective tax rate, analyst forecast accuracy

Suggested Citation:

Hutchens, Michelle, Can Disclosure Characteristics Improve Analyst Forecast Accuracy? (September 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042836
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies