Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Buying in: Residence and Citizenship by Investment

St. Louis University Law Journal, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2017

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 26, 2017

Abstract

States have complex and often conflicted attitudes toward migration and citizenship. These attitudes are not always directly expressed by lawmakers, but they may be reflected quite explicitly in tax regimes: for the world’s most prosperous individuals and their families, multiple states extend a warm welcome. Sometimes prospective migrants are offered fast track to physical residence which can lead to citizenship if the migrant desires it. Others are offered a mere commercial transaction, with citizenship granted to applicants with the right credentials and a willingness to pay. Migrants might seek to obtain residency or citizenship for personal, family, economic, or tax reasons, or some combination of them. For the granting country, the tax significance of obtaining new residents or citizens will vary depending on domestic policy goals. However, the consequences of residence and citizenship by investment programs could be severe for the international tax regime: the jurisdiction to tax and the allocation of taxing rights among countries are commonly based on residence and citizenship factors. This article accordingly surveys contemporary residence and citizenship by investment programs on offer around the world and analyzes their potential impact on international tax policy.

Keywords: Taxation, Tax Policy, Migration, Investment, Citizenship, Nationality, Residence, Immigrant Investor Programs, Golden Visa, Economic Citizenship, Financial Citizenship, Common Reporting Standard

JEL Classification: D78, F02, F22, F42, H20, H26, H87, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, Buying in: Residence and Citizenship by Investment (September 26, 2017). St. Louis University Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3043325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
E G See , Allison Christians
Understanding the Accidental American: Tina's Story, 80 Tax Notes Int'l 833 Posted: 2015-12-07
Ruth Mason
Citizenship Taxation, 89 S
Cal. L. Rev , volume 169 Posted: 2016
Oecd See , Standard For Automatic Exchange , Of , In , Matters
IMPLEMENTATION HANDBOOK 5-6 (2017) (explaining how the U.S. adoption of disclosure rules for foreign financial institutions led to the development of a global standard modeled on the same structure)
E G See , &amp; Blum
Singer, supra note 50 at 717 (calling for a change to residence-based taxation on grounds that the administration of citizenship-based taxation "is too difficult and expensive for taxpayers and the IRS")
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,259
RANK
88,666
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies