Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Submission to Senate Finance Committee - Taxation of Accumulated Deferred Foreign Income

5 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2017

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: October 13, 2017

Abstract

International tax reform proposals all suggest some transition from the present deferral system to some other system. As an integral part of that transition, it is expected as well that there will be some taxation on all “accumulated deferred foreign income” existing as of the transition date.

This submission suggests two administratively workable mechanisms by which a favorable lower-then-35% tax rate can be appropriately applied to accumulated deferred foreign income that was earned through real business activities conducted outside the U.S., consistent with the Congressional intent of the current deferral tax system. On the other hand, any such accumulated deferred foreign income that has resulted from profit shifting activities should be taxed at the full 35%, including an interest charge.

Keywords: International Tax, Corporate Tax Reform, Tax Reform

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., Submission to Senate Finance Committee - Taxation of Accumulated Deferred Foreign Income (October 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3053368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies