Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'The Ability to Pay' in Tax Law: Clarifying the Concept's Egalitarian and Utilitarian Justifications and the Interactions Between the Two

21 N.Y.U. J. Legis. & Pub. Pol’y 141 (2018).

61 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2017 Last revised: 11 Apr 2025

Michael Pressman

University of Utah, S.J. Quinney College of Law, Students

Date Written: October 15, 2017

Abstract

A vast amount of tax literature appeals to the premise that a system of taxation should assign tax burdens according to taxpayers’ “ability to pay.” Despite the broad-based assent to the importance of “ability to pay,” however, there has been far from a consensus on why it is important, or even on what the term means. These confusions are frequently overlooked, though, because many of the characterizations of and justifications for “ability to pay” come out the same way on various issues—thus masking the differences among the viewpoints. In this Article, I attempt to unpack and shed much-needed light on the term “ability to pay.”

It turns out that the notion of “ability to pay” is employed for two main reasons: Distributing the tax burden according to people’s ability to pay furthers both egalitarian and utilitarian ideals. In this Article, I begin by teasing these goals apart and by explaining how they are furthered by distributing the tax burden according to people’s “ability to pay.” I then proceed to explore in greater depth how successful the notion of “ability to pay” is at furthering each of these two goals, and I consider different ways of assigning the tax burden (and different collection methods) that could perhaps better further egalitarian and utilitarian goals. While many accounts further both goals somewhat well, and while many of these same accounts further one goal extremely well, it is difficult to identify an account that furthers both goals extremely well.

Ultimately, I zero in on an account that, in my view, best satisfies the egalitarian goal and best satisfies the utilitarian goal. Further, because it best satisfies both individual goals, I argue that it is also the account that best satisfies the underlying ambition of an “ability to pay” tax system to further both goals. The account that I offer is a version of a utility tax—a version both according to which the tax is collected in terms of utility, and according to which the tax burden is determined in terms of utility.

The account I offer, in various ways, could be described as an “ability to pay” tax in terms of utility. Thus, although I begin the Article by exploring the notion of an “ability to pay” tax and I then argue that an “ability to pay” tax, as it currently exists, is not the account that best furthers egalitarianism and efficiency, the account I defend does incorporate some key features of an “ability to pay” tax (despite being very different in other ways). Further, it is only in virtue of unpacking the notion of “ability to pay,” and exploring the rationales and justifications that underlie it, that I will be able to identify the account I defend, recognizing its unique ability to simultaneously further egalitarian and utilitarian goals.

Keywords: tax law, tax policy, legal theory, jurisprudence, law and philosophy, law and economics

Suggested Citation:

Pressman, Michael, 'The Ability to Pay' in Tax Law: Clarifying the Concept's Egalitarian and Utilitarian Justifications and the Interactions Between the Two (October 15, 2017). 21 N.Y.U. J. Legis. & Pub. Pol’y 141 (2018)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,922
RANK
265,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies