Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Before International Tax Reform, We Need to Understand Why Firms Invert

Wharton Public Policy Initiative Issue Brief, Volume 5, Issue 8, September 2017.

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-44

9 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2017

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

A wave of corporate inversions by U.S. firms over the past two decades has generated substantial debate in academic, business, and policy circles.

The core of the debate hinges on a couple of key economic questions: Do U.S. tax laws disadvantage U.S.-domiciled companies relative to their foreign competitors? And, if so, do inversions improve the competitiveness of U.S. multinational firms both abroad and at home?

There is unfortunately little, if any, empirical work directly determining whether U.S.-based MNCs are currently tax-disadvantaged compared to their foreign rivals, or measuring the amount by which (if any) U.S.-based MNCs improve their competitive position by inverting.

This brief, however, summarizes both old and new research that views these questions through the lens of corporations’ global effective tax rates (ETRs), and finds that the stronger case seems to be that U.S.-domiciled corporations are often tax-disadvantaged and that they can improve their competitive position by inverting.

Additional evidence also suggests that U.S. MNCs can increase their after-tax cash flow by inverting.

Inversions indicate that something is fundamentally wrong with the tax system. The brief concludes by discussing two feasible paths forward for reform.

Keywords: Taxation, law & economics, corporations, multi-national business organizations, foreign competition, re-flagging of MNCs, inversions, global effective tax rates, tax disadvantages of U.S.-domiciled corporations, motivations to invert, improving competitiveness, post-inversion ETRs

JEL Classification: F22, K34, P12, P16

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., Before International Tax Reform, We Need to Understand Why Firms Invert (September 2017). Wharton Public Policy Initiative Issue Brief, Volume 5, Issue 8, September 2017., U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3054104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
In at least two inversions (IHS, which merged with the U.K.'s Markit, and Burger King, which merged with Canada's Tim Hortons), management said it expected little change in ETR following the transaction
Testimony Robinson
Crossref
Harry Grubert &amp; Roseanne Altshuler
Fixing the System: An Analysis of Alternative Proposals for the Reform of International Tax
Melissa Redmiles
One-Time Received Dividend Deduction
27 SOI Bull , volume 103 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,850
RANK
373,668
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies