Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Off Target: Assessing the Fairness of Ottawa's Proposed Tax Reforms for 'Passive' Investments in CCPCs

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 493, ISBN: 978-1-987983-44-9

24 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017

Alexandre Laurin

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: October 5, 2017

Abstract

In July 2017, the Department of Finance launched consultations on a series of tax proposals affecting owners of Canadian-Controlled Private Corporations (CCPCs). The proposals on the treatment of “passive income,” from investments such as equities and government bonds, have attracted particular controversy. The proposed regime would end passive investment income-tax refundability for CCPCs – ie., taxes paid on investment income in a CCPC would no longer be tracked and refunded upon dividend payments. Although there are other versions of proposed changes, this is seemingly the one the government favours. Private corporations – and by extension their owners – would be taxed on their passive investment income on the same basis as if they were individual investors in fully taxable accounts. There would be diminished incentives to defer business consumption, and less income and business saving available for spending on capital equipment. The same is true of small business income retained for personal purposes – there will be greater incentives for immediate personal consumption of business income rather than saving it for retirement or other purposes. But is the current system inequitable? Our tax simulations show, overall, it is not – when benchmarked against the tax treatment afforded to personal retirement savings. Saving for retirement in tax-assisted plans – on a “consumption-equivalent” tax basis with a steeply graduated tax rate structure – is widely accepted in principle and in practice, because such treatment does not discourage saving as a pure income tax would do. Considering that additional administration, accounting, and tax compliance costs need to be incurred in corporate accounts, one could reasonably conclude that passively reinvested small business earnings receive a tax treatment similar to that of RRSP/TFSAs in a variety of possible portfolio compositions. Besides, successful businesses earning income above the small-business threshold enjoy no significant tax “advantages” on passively reinvested earnings. As laid out, these proposals risk delivering a blow to the retirement planning of many small business owners, not to mention their potential negative impacts on entrepreneurship and risk taking. Further, the playing field with respect to tax-assisted saving opportunities is already largely unequal. Outdated current tax rules allow career defined-benefit (DB) pension plan participants, particularly in the public sector, to end their careers with tax-assisted retirement wealth worth multiples of that practically achievable in RRSPs. If the government proceeds with changes along the lines it has outlined, fairness suggests that it should level the playing field so business owners have tax-assisted retirement saving opportunities comparable to those available to most public-sector employees in DB plans and Members of Parliament. The most ambitious reform would establish a lifetime accumulation limit of personal tax-assisted savings, in lieu of the current system of annual limits. A lifetime accumulation limit would ease the transition to the new proposed regime, and provide needed contribution flexibility and room to everyone, including small business owners, to accumulate sufficient retirement wealth.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Laurin, Alexandre, Off Target: Assessing the Fairness of Ottawa's Proposed Tax Reforms for 'Passive' Investments in CCPCs (October 5, 2017). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 493, ISBN: 978-1-987983-44-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3055190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Jill Booker
Comprehensive Practices in Risk and Retirement Planning Posted: 2007
Canada
Tax Planning Using Private Corporations Posted: 2017-07
J Kesselman , Peter S Rhys , Spiro
Challenges in Shifting Canadian Taxation Toward Consumption
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 62 Posted: 2014
Alexandre Laurin , William B. P. Robson
Premium Compensation: The Ballooning Cost of Federal Government Employees
C.D. Howe Institute e-brief No. 258 Pages: 8 Posted: 13 May 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
5 Citations
Lawson A. W. Hunter , Kenneth Englehart , Peter Miller
Strengthening Canadian Television Content: Creation, Discovery and Export in a Digital World
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 498; ISBN: 978-1-987983-52-4 · 40 Pages · Posted: 22 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 310
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Schwanen
Innovation Policy in Canada: A Holistic Approach
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 497, ISBN: 978-1-987983-50-0 · 32 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 332
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bonnie-Jeanne MacDonald
Headed for the Poorhouse: How to Ensure Seniors Don't Run Out of Cash Before They Run Out of Time
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 500 · 20 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rosalie Wyonch
Risk and Readiness: The Impact of Automation on Provincial Labour Markets
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 499 · 24 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 114
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
5 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies