Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China and the Future of the International Tax Regime

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-017

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 572

32 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2017 Last revised: 1 Nov 2017

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Haiyan Xu

University of Michigan Law School; University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) Law School

Date Written: October 21, 2017

Abstract

The International tax regime (ITR) has been transformed after the Great Recession of 2008-2009. The G20/Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project (2013-2015) has fundamentally changed the ITR, giving new life to the single tax principle (income should be taxed once, i.e. no double taxation and no double non taxation).

Reaction to BEPS has varied dramatically between the EU and the US, the two largest markets in the world. In the EU BEPS is taken very seriously, as shown for example by the new Anti Tax Avoidance Directives that implement the single tax principle. In the US BEPS is almost invisible; while the US model tax treaty has been amended to incorporate it the US has refused to sign the Multilateral Instrument to implement BEPS in its treaties and the only other BEPS action that the US has taken is country by country reporting.

It thus appears that the future of BEPS and the ITR depends on whether the EU or the US view prevails, i.e., whether multinationals can be forced to pay significant tax on the 160-220 billion that are currently not taxed annually because of BEPS.

While US multinationals as well as EU multinationals are exposed to the EU ATAD and related measures while operating in Europe, they are less subject to EU anti BEPS measures elsewhere in the world. It therefore is crucial to assess the reaction to BEPS in the other large economy that was involved in its development, namely China.

The following article attempts to assess China’s reaction to BEPS based on Chinese sources. It shows that China takes BEPS seriously. Therefore, given the reactions of China (as well as India, which is even more aggressive that China for example in taxing the digital economy) it seems likely that eventually the EU view of BEPS will prevail and US based multinationals will eventually be forced to pay tax on the over 100 billion they shift offshore each year.

Keywords: BEPS, China

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Xu, Haiyan and Xu, Haiyan, China and the Future of the International Tax Regime (October 21, 2017). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-017, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3056796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3056796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
First paragraph, Article 30 (2) of Bulletin 6
77 Second paragraph, Article 30 (2) of Bulletin 6
Actions 8-­-10 Reports
Article 31 of Bulletin 6
Load more
1 Citations
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Gianluca Mazzoni
BEPS, ATAP and the New Tax Dialogue: A Transatlantic Competition?
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 612 · 25 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 1 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 338
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,104
RANK
235,061
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies