Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective International Information Exchange as a Key Element of Modern Tax Systems: Promises and Pitfalls of the OECD's Common Reporting Standard

Public Sector Economics, 1(2), 2017

20 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2017

Stjepan Gadzo

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Law; IBFD

Irena Klemencic

Institute of Public Finance, Zagreb

Date Written: October 19, 2016

Abstract

Today's global economic environment is characterized by the high mobility of capital and labour across national borders. Against the backdrop of a legal framework governing taxation of cross-border income, this may lead to double taxation on the one hand, as well as provide opportunities for tax evasion and tax avoidance on the other. It is well-established that a prerequisite for effective taxation of foreign-sourced income earned by "domestic taxpayers" (i.e. tax residents) is the system of administrative co-operation across national boundaries, mainly in the form of exchange of tax-relevant information between tax authorities. Since the lack of information-exchange mechanisms is linked with tax havens and the proliferation of “harmful tax practices”, the OECD put the issue high on the global political agenda as early as 1998. Further developments strengthened the importance of the exchange of information, leading to the so-called "big bang" of 2009, i.e. to a significant increase in the number of concluded tax information exchange agreements, caused by the growing concern about international tax evasion and avoidance in the post-crisis period.

Nowadays the so-called automatic exchange of information (AEOI) between tax authorities has emerged as a new global standard. This is mostly due to the development of specific national and international models, aimed at enhancing inter-governmental cooperation in fighting offshore tax evasion. In this regard special attention should be drawn to the 2014 release of the OECD’s Common Reporting Standard (CRS), which is based on the idea that banks and other financial institutions should play a crucial role in providing information on taxpayer’s income and assets to tax authorities around the globe.

The aim of this paper is to explore some of the most important implications of the adoption of the CRS as a global AEOI model. While there are marked advantages of the new standard – mainly related to its potential in curbing large-scale offshore tax evasion – some important concerns arise as to its implementation on a global level. Particular attention will be paid to the issue of coordination of the CRS with the other information exchange models (e.g. FATCA) and to the problem of protecting taxpayers’ rights and information.

Keywords: Tax Law, International Tax Law, Exchange of Information, Automatic Exchange of Information

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Gadzo, Stjepan and Klemencic, Irena, Effective International Information Exchange as a Key Element of Modern Tax Systems: Promises and Pitfalls of the OECD's Common Reporting Standard (October 19, 2016). Public Sector Economics, 1(2), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3057963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Irena Gadžo , Klemenčić
effective international information exchange as a key element of modern tax systems: promises and pitfalls of the oecd's common reporting standard public sector economics , volume 41 , p. 207 - 226 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P R Altenburger
Coexistence between FATCA and MCAA -potential conflicts
Tax Notes International , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 337 - 340 Posted: 2015
André Rocha , S
Exchange of Tax-Related Information and the Protection of Taxpayer Rights: General Comments and the Brazilian Perspective
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 70 , issue 9 , p. 502 - 516 Posted: 2016
P Baker , P Pistone
The practical protection of taxpayers' rights
General Report in Cahiers de droit fiscal international , volume 100 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
RANK
336,300
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies