Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deductibility: Evaluating the Advantage of Earnings Stripping Regimes in Preventing Thin Capitalisation

New Zealand Law Review 2017, vol II, 257-284

28 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2017

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 25, 2017

Abstract

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released the Final Report on Limiting Base Erosion Involving Interest Deductions and other Financial Payments (better known as Action 4, it was subsequently updated in late 2016). This Report recommended that countries adopt thin capitalisation regimes to allow interest expense on debt funding based on a proportion (fixed ratio) of earnings. For example, the rule would only permit an entity to deduct net interest expense up to a benchmark of net interest as a proportion of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA). The benchmark ratio suggested only permits interest deductions of an amount of 10 to 30 per cent of EBITDA. Should New Zealand adopt the OECD’s suggestion? This article evaluates the OECD’s proposal against the existing New Zealand thin capitalisation regime which currently operates on the basis of the entity’s balance sheet. This assets-based regime looks at the level of debt and compares this to total assets. In assessing the respective merits of the proposal against the existing regime the article uses key principles set out by the Tax Working Group when it carefully examined the New Zealand tax system in 2010. The conclusion reached is that, contrary to the strong recommendation in the OECD’s Report, there is no compelling case for change to an earnings-based EBITDA method. The article goes on to suggest a mechanism to deal with particular problems identified with “high priced debt” suggesting an interest rate cap as an alternative.

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Interest Deductibility: Evaluating the Advantage of Earnings Stripping Regimes in Preventing Thin Capitalisation (October 25, 2017). New Zealand Law Review 2017, vol II, 257-284, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3059176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
206,880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies