Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unconvincing Case for 25%

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 17/90

28 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2017 Last revised: 6 Nov 2018

Graeme S. Cooper

The University of Sydney Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 25, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines several elements of the case currently being advanced for reducing Australia’s corporate tax rate to 25%. In essence, the proposal is for an immediate, certain and widely-dispersed revenue loss wagered in the hope of triggering a contingent and deferred response from a narrow target. The paper revisits the history of this proposal and the development of the argument in the last two decades. It then queries some impressions embedded in the current debate – that the proposal is for a tax cut, that a 30% rate on commercial profit is actually paid (or meant to be paid) by most companies, that the imputation system will negate much of the cost of the lost revenue and that most foreign investors will benefit from a reduced corporate rate. The paper concludes that, while the proposal may be sensible for other reasons, the case currently being made is unconvincing.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, Corporate Rate, Tax Cuts, Imputation

JEL Classification: H25, H29, K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Graeme S., The Unconvincing Case for 25% (October 25, 2017). Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 17/90, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3059257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3059257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,587
RANK
511,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies