Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on GST and Its Probable Impact on the Sales Tax Revenue of Kerala

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 29-63

Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Benix Thankaswamy

Independent

Date Written: October 28, 2017

Abstract

Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a type of unified value-added tax on goods and services which is levied at country level. The main objective of this new tax regime in India is to avoid multiple taxation on same goods and services. Introduction of this destination based consumption tax will stimulate Indian industry and ensure its overall economic development and growth. The present paper mainly focuses on examining the structure, features and expected challenges of proposed GST, and also endeavors to forecast its probable impact on the sales tax revenue of Kerala. Based on the trends from 2004-05 to 2014-15 under VAT regime, the non-VAT and VAT revenue of Kerala is expected to grow at a diminishing rate in the coming years. This shortage of VAT revenue will have an adverse impact on the economy. GST is the only option to increase the tax revenue of Kerala.

Suggested Citation:

Thankaswamy, Benix, A Study on GST and Its Probable Impact on the Sales Tax Revenue of Kerala (October 28, 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XV, No. 4, October 2016, pp. 29-63 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3060935
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies