Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of Personal Income Tax as a Source of Revenue Generation in Nigeria

Posted: 31 Oct 2017

Professor Muhammad Tanko

Kaduna State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 29, 2017

Abstract

Personal income tax is the tax paid by individuals from both the formal and informal sectors of the economy. While those on employment pay as the earn which is popularly known as pay as you Earn (PAYE), those on personal income or informal sectors are directly assessed based on the income they generate from their entrepreneurial ventures, which is also known as Direct Assessment. The aim of this paper is to assess the contribution of personal income tax as a source of revenue to Kaduna state. Data for the analysis were basically sourced from the secondary source, using published data from the office of the Kaduna state accountant general’s office. The paper found that there is a significant difference between the amount generated as internally generated revenue and the amount incurred as total expenditure, which automatically indicates the incapacitation of the internally generated revenue to cater for the states’ total expenditure. On the other hand, there is also a significant difference between the amount generated as internally generated revenue and the amount of revenue generated by the states over the period of the study. This is also an indication that there is a higher reliance on the federation account for the states revenue. It is recommended that states must look inwards and develop strong strategies to enhance their internally generated revenue, most especially with the dwindling prices of oil in the international market.

Keywords: Personal Income Tax, Revenue Generation and Nigeria

JEL Classification: Tax

Suggested Citation:

Tanko, Professor Muhammad, An Assessment of Personal Income Tax as a Source of Revenue Generation in Nigeria (October 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061582
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies