Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Avoidance Diminish Sustainability?

32 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2017 Last revised: 6 Dec 2017

Chika Saka

Kwansei Gakuin University; Kwansei Gakuin University

Tomoki Oshika

Waseda University

Masayuki Jimichi

Kwansei Gakuin University - School of Business Administration

Date Written: September 6, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: Firm tax avoidance has gathered substantial public attention in both the real world and academic literature. Stakeholder theory suggests that firms need to maintain good relationships with all firm stakeholders to be sustainable.Although it makes the firm profitable in the short run, tax avoidance may diminish the sustainability of the firm. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to empirically examine the relationship between tax avoidance and sustainability.

Design/methodology/approach: This study uses 30 years of data from 58 countries, and provides empirical evidence on whether effective tax rates can distinguish sustainable firms from those that are not.

Findings: This study finds that tax avoidance diminishes sustainability; tax avoidance is found in most countries and there are significant variations of tax avoidance at the individual firm level.

Originality/Value: The study makes three key contributions to the literature. First, it extends the findings of existing research by calculating the differences between effective tax rates (ETRs) and statutory tax rates, which is more clearly representative of tax avoidance than the ETRs alone. Second, the empirical analyses involve firms in 58 countries over 20 years, making the results generalizable. Finally, it is the first to show the long-term economic consequences of tax avoidance.

Research Implications: The evidence sheds light on tax avoidance, which has grown to the point where it can no longer be ignored by researchers or citizens. This evidence might change firms’ tax avoidance behaviour.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Statutory Tax Rate, Sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Saka, Chika and Saka, Chika and Oshika, Tomoki and Jimichi, Masayuki, Does Tax Avoidance Diminish Sustainability? (September 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3061565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagplinzer
Corporate governance incentives and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The separation of ownership and control and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
F Badurdeen , I S Jawahir
Strategies for value creation through sustainable manufacturing
Procedia Manufacturing , volume 8 , p. 20 - 27 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Chika Saka , Tomoki Oshika , Masayuki Jimichi
Visualization of World-Scale Evidence on Tax Avoidance and Tax Rate Convergence
24 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 151
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chika Saka , Tomoki Oshika , Masayuki Jimichi
Visualization of tax avoidance and tax rate convergence
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 695 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Aleksandra Hlastec , Damijan Mumel , Lidija Hauptman
Is There a Relationship between Self-Enhancement, Conservation and Personal Tax Culture?
Sustainability , volume 15 , issue 7 , p. 5797 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
569
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,341
RANK
110,496
3 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

CSR & Management Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies