Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Internal Information Quality and State Tax Planning

44 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2017

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 8, 2017

Abstract

This study examines if internal information quality facilitates state tax planning. Due to the considerable number of tax jurisdictions, variety of tax rules, and enforcement mechanisms, state taxes are one of the most complex areas for tax planning. Prior literature finds that internal information quality is positively associated with summary measures of tax planning. However, we know little about what specific forms of tax planning drive this association. We conjecture that the complex area of state tax planning is one of the forms of tax planning that benefits from strong internal information quality. Consistent with this conjecture, we find that higher internal information quality is positively associated with state tax planning. We also find that domestic firms drive this relation, consistent with multinational firms focusing more on international tax planning. Finally, using a structural equation model that allows different forms of tax planning to covary with each other, we find a positive association between higher levels of internal information quality and both state and foreign tax planning. We fail to find a significant association between internal information quality and federal tax planning. Taken together, our results imply that internal information quality is most important for complex, multi-jurisdictional areas of tax planning.

Keywords: Internal information, tax avoidance, tax planning, state tax

JEL Classification: H26, H71, H72

Suggested Citation:

Kelley, Stacie and Lynch, Dan and Vernon, Mary, The Association between Internal Information Quality and State Tax Planning (November 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3067519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
A Bauer
Tax avoidance and the implications of weak internal controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Christof Beuselinck , Jochen Pierk
On the Dynamics between Local and International Tax Planning in Multinational Corporations
Review of Accounting Studies, accepted. Pages: 59 Posted: 5 Feb 2018 Last revised: 21 Jun 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Bornmann , S K Laplante , B Osswald
The effect of intellectual property boxes on innovative activity and tax avoidance. Working paper Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,543
RANK
213,115
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies