Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incentives for Research and Development and Their Use in Tax Planning

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 17-046

57 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2017

Olena Pfeiffer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This study provides a comprehensive analysis of various aspects of R&D tax incentives. It explains the economic justification behind the state support of research and development and summarizes its main types. In addition, it gives an overview of the existing R&D tax incentives in Europe and provides a thorough review of the empirical literature on the outcomes of fiscal incentives. Furthermore, the Devereux and Griffith model is used to determine the effective tax burden of multinational firms that reside in countries which implement R&D tax support and countries which do not. The model is developed further following Spengel and Elschner (2010) and Evers et al. (2015) to reflect a potential use of R&D tax incentives by multinational firms for tax planning. The hypothesis developed in the model is tested in an empirical estimation, where we employ the OECD data on international co-operation in patents. According to our main findings, there are at least two reasons why input-oriented R&D tax incentives, such as tax credits and tax super-deductions, constitute a more suitable instrument for fostering research and development than the output-oriented incentives, such as IP Boxes. First, there is robust evidence found in the empirical literature which shows the positive effect introducing input-oriented tax incentives has on a firm’s innovative activity, whereas studies on output-oriented tax incentives are not able to support this argument. Secondly, according to our theoretical and empirical analyses, output-oriented R&D tax incentives may be used by multinationals for tax planning as opposed to their intended use of fostering research and development.

Keywords: Research and Development; R&D; Tax Planning; Corporate Taxation

JEL Classification: H25, F23, H26, H3

Suggested Citation:

Pfeiffer, Olena and Spengel, Christoph, Tax Incentives for Research and Development and Their Use in Tax Planning (2017). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 17-046, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3067926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A References Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodeme , A Skonieczna , A Vezzani
Patent Boxes Design, Patents Location and Local R&D
European Commission Working Paper , issue 57 Posted: 2015
P Arginelli
Innovation through R&D Tax Incentives: Some Ideas for a Fair and Transparent Tax Policy
World Tax Journal , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 71 Posted: 2015
R Atkinson , S Andes
Patent Boxes: Innovation in Tax Policy and Tax Policy for Innovation, Information Technology & Innovation Foundation Paper Posted: 2011
R Baghana , P Mohnen
Effectiveness of R&D Tax Incentives in Small and Large Enterprises in Québec
Small Business Economics , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Zdeněk Brabec , Martina Černíková , Šárka Hyblerová
R&amp;D deductions in the Czech Republic: Is the amount dependent on the size of a company?
Knowledge and Performance Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 150 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Chris Evans , Sally-Ann Joseph
Government Incentives for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
, p. 39 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Caitlin Helmus , Maira Huizar , David Strobel , Bastian Grossmann , Katharine Wirsching
The Strategic Management of Place at Work
, p. 121 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Firoz Ehsan
Boosting innovation in small- and medium-sized enterprises through tax incentives: lessons from the UK
Science and Public Policy , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 712 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,950
RANK
119,735
9 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies