Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advancing Personal Income Tax Compliance

Posted: 11 Nov 2017

Nicholas Hunt

University of Nevada, Reno

Govind Iyer

University of North Texas

Philip Reckers

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) estimates that over $450 billion in revenue is lost annually due to taxpayer noncompliance, the majority of which is related to the individual income tax. Using the standard deterrence theory (economic) model, in isolation, to explain and advance individual taxpayer compliance behavior has been found to exhibit weak validity. Accordingly increasing attention has focused on behavioral enhancements accruing from research in psychology. This paper examines the potentially countervailing deterrence theory and behavioral theory effects of various IRS communications to the public. We find that in one type of communication, namely publication of instances of detection and penalties levied related to egregious taxpayer evasion, deterrence theory factors (salience of detection and penalties) outweigh behavioral influences (advantageous comparison rationalizations). In a second type of communication, namely publication of the reciprocal individual taxpayer inflow and outflow calculus) rationalizations related to denial of victims and minimization of consequences dominate.

Keywords: Income Tax Compliance, Rationalization, Deterrence Theory, Experiment

Suggested Citation:

Hunt, Nicholas and Iyer, Govind and Reckers, Philip, Advancing Personal Income Tax Compliance (October 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3067636
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies