Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study of Chinese Opinion

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016

39 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Zhaoxu Liu

Fayetteville State University

Date Written: November 9, 2017

Abstract

A number of studies have examined the relationship between tax collection and various demographic variables. However, until recently most of those studies have involved a United States sample population. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service provides demographic data for researchers on a regular basis. The present study goes beyond those studies in several important ways. For one, it uses data on China taken from the World Values database.

This study expands on existing literature in at least two other ways as well. For one, it examines how various demographics interact with attitudes toward tax evasion. Secondly, we examine several demographic variables that were not examined in prior studies. The sample had 1885 usable responses from a wide range of the mainland Chinese population.

One of the questions in the World Values database asked whether it would be justifiable to cheat on taxes if it were possible to do so. Respondents were asked to choose a number from 1 to 10 to indicate the extent of their support for tax evasion. This study examines those responses, both overall and through the prism of six demographic variables. A trend analysis is also done to determine whether Chinese attitudes regarding tax evasion have changed in recent years. A comparison is made with other ethical issues to determine the relative seriousness of tax evasion.

This study found some interesting relationships between attitude toward tax evasion and several demographic variables. Although there is strong opposition to tax evasion in general, the extent of opposition has fluctuated over time. Men and women were equally opposed to tax evasion; older people were not significantly more opposed to tax evasion than were younger people (at the 5 percent confidence level), which is different than the results found in other tax evasion surveys; widows and married individuals were more opposed to tax evasion than were other groups, and single and separated individuals were least opposed. The correlation between tax evasion attitude and education was nonlinear. The two least educated groups were at extreme opposites of the spectrum. Middle class individuals were most opposed to tax evasion, which people in the upper class were least opposed. Opposition to tax evasion fluctuated by region, with the strongest opposition in Chongqing and least opposition in Heilongjiang Province. Tax evasion was considered a little more serious than wife beating and a little less serious than homosexuality.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, empirical study, demographic variables, gender, age, education level, marital status, social class, region, longitudinal study, China, World Values Survey

JEL Classification: H26,H24,A12,A13,D63,D73,E26,J1,J11,J12,J14,J16,K14,K34,K42,M41,O17,O53,P2,P32,P37

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Liu, Zhaoxu, The Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study of Chinese Opinion (November 9, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3068544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
C Adams
Fight, Flight and Fraud: The Story of Taxation Posted: 1982
C Adams
For Good or Evil: The Impact of Taxes on the Course of Civilization Posted: 1993
M Ahmad
Business Ethics in Islam. Islamabad, Pakistan: The International Institute of Islamic Thought & The International Institute of Islamic Economics Posted: 1995
I P Akaah
Differences in Research Ethics Judgments between Male and Female Marketing Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 375 - 381 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,706
RANK
294,906
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies