Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incidence and Tax Avoidance

77 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2017 Last revised: 5 Aug 2020

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 12, 2020

Abstract

Economists broadly agree that the economic burden of corporate taxes is not entirely borne by shareholders, but also borne in part by employees or consumers. We model corporate tax avoidance in a setting where shareholders do not bear the entire economic burden of the corporate tax. We show the relation between corporate tax incidence and corporate tax avoidance depends on the elasticity of labor supply, the productivity of capital relative to labor, and the tax deductibility of labor and capital. These forces have competing effects, making the association between tax avoidance and incidence an empirical question. Empirically, we find that firms whose shareholders bear less of the economic burden of corporate taxes engage in less avoidance, and that the results are strongest under conditions predicted by our model. Our findings suggest that maximizing after-tax profits might entail less tax avoidance if shareholders do not entirely bear the corporate tax burden.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Burden, Tax Incidence

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Jacob, Martin and Jiang, Xu and Müller, Maximilian A., Tax Incidence and Tax Avoidance (June 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3070239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3070239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Jaewoo Kim , Michelle L. Nessa , Ryan J. Wilson
How Do Reductions in Foreign Country Corporate Tax Rates Affect U.S. Domestic Manufacturing Firms?
https://meridian.allenpress.com/accounting-review/article-abstract/96/3/287/439905/How-Do-Reductions-in-Foreign-Country-Corporate-Tax · Posted: 15 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 8 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yiwei Fang , Iftekhar Hasan , Woon Sau Leung , Jiong Sun
Corporate Tax Changes and Supply-Chain Partners’ Performance
60 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 157
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Jacob , Maximilian A. Müller , Thorben Wulff
Do Consumers Pay the Corporate Tax?
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 15 · 55 Pages · Posted: 22 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 679
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rong Ding , Sushil Sainani , Ziyang (John) Zhang
Protection of trade secrets and corporate tax avoidance: Evidence from the inevitable disclosure doctrine
Journal of Business Research , volume 132 , p. 221 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,514
RANK
17,826
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies