Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Certified Individual Auditors and Effective Tax Rates

Business Research, online available at: DOI: 10.1007/s40685-017-0057-8

Posted: 17 Nov 2017 Last revised: 8 Dec 2017

Lisa Frey

formerly University of Passau

Date Written: November 15, 2017

Abstract

This study examines how the appointment of tax certified individual auditors is associated with reported effective tax rates of corporate clients. The study uses a unique German institutional setting which makes it possible to track individual auditors that are also certified tax consultants and sign the audit opinion. Empirical results indicate that tax certified individual engagement partners are associated with higher effective tax rates. Further tests reveal that this association also exists for individual parent company financial statements and that it is stronger when tax confirmation services are provided to the audit client. My findings enhance the understanding of the role of individual auditors.

Keywords: tax certified individual auditor, effective tax rate, knowledge spillover

JEL Classification: M41, M42, H26

Suggested Citation:

Frey, Lisa, Tax Certified Individual Auditors and Effective Tax Rates (November 15, 2017). Business Research, online available at: DOI: 10.1007/s40685-017-0057-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071660
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
783
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies