Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Myth of Corporate Tax Residence

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 9, No. 1, 2017

39 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2017

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

The issue of corporate residence has recently attracted a great deal of attention in both the popular press and in academic discourse, primarily because of the phenomenon of corporate inversions. The consensus among commentators is that the root of the problem is a flawed definition of corporate residence, and they have therefore proposed replacing the current definition, which relies upon place of incorporation, with another that relies upon control and management, home office, customer base, source of income, or the residence of shareholders.

The thesis of this article is that the concept of tax residence is inapplicable to corporations. Residence in tax law delineates the boundaries of distributive justice, and whereas corporations cannot be parties to a scheme of distributive justice, corporate residence is a misnomer. The incongruity of corporate residence along with the fact that residence is a fundamental concept in international taxation is one reason that the current international tax regime has proven unviable.

The article then goes on to describe in broad outline an international corporate tax regime that avoids the problem of corporate residence by focusing on shareholders instead of on corporations.

Keywords: tax, taxation, international, international taxation, corporation, corporate taxation, residence, corporate residence, ability-to-pay, distributive justice, Kant

JEL Classification: K34, H21,H25, H20, F00, F60

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, The Myth of Corporate Tax Residence (August 1, 2017). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 9, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3074057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
E G See , The Henry Sidgwick , Principles , Political Economy
The common sense of mankind, in considering these inequalities, implicitly adopts, as I conceive, two propositions laid down by Bentham as to the relation of wealth to happiness: viz. (1) that an increase of wealth is-speaking broadly and generally-productive of an increase of happiness to its possessor; and (2) that the resulting increase in happiness is not simply proportional to the increase in wealth, but stands in a decreasing ratio to it … And from these two propositions taken together the obvious conclusion is that the more any society approximates to equality in the distribution of wealth among its members, the greater on the whole is the aggregate of satisfactions which the society in question derives from the wealth it possesses , volume 519 Posted: 1887
Calvin H Johnson
Was It Lost? Personal Deductions Under Tax Reform, 59 SMU L. REV , volume 689 Posted: 2006
Martin J Mcmahon , Jr Alice , G Abreu
See also the sources cited in Jeffrey A. Schoenblum, Tax Fairness or Unfairness? A Consideration of the Philosophical Bases for Unequal Taxation of Individuals, 12 AM
J. TAX POL'Y , volume 221 , p. 236 - 278 Posted: 1995
John Rawls , A Theory , Justice
, p. 103 - 107 Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,804
RANK
226,842
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies