Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sales Country as a Tax Credit Country – Implementation Issues, Complexity Costs and Tax Planning

50 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2017

Lisa Maria Fell

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: November 24, 2017

Abstract

The international taxation of multinational enterprises (MNEs) stands under public and political pressure. The OECD BEPS project is striving for taxation in line with economic activity and value creation. While this might prevent book profit shifting it comes at the risk of investment shifting and corresponding losses in tax revenue. Academics put forward destination-based taxation to prevent investment shifting. This might come at the cost of taxing MNEs’ profits not in all places of value creation. This conflict can be solved by a mechanism first proposed by Schreiber/Fell. Possible further implementation forms, especially within the OECD framework of transfer pricing and possible instruments to use shall be examined within this paper. The implementation forms shall be compared based on the involvements of information, coordination, differentiation, cooperation and consensus need, while taking into account the remaining flexibility for states involved and tax planning opportunities. While all three possible implementation forms within transfer pricing could be feasible next steps, taking into account preferences of states involved, the mechanism as such can be questioned from a stability point of view. While all states involved despite tax havens could be possible winners when entering the mechanism, sales countries could not be incentivized to uphold it from a pure revenue perspective. As a consequence, states involved should take the long-term trends in taxation into account in order to think about a solution based on coordination.

Keywords: BEPS, Coordination, Country-by-Country Reporting, Credit Method, Destination-Based, Inter-Nation Equity, International Profit Allocation, International Investment Neutrality, International Business Taxation, Multinational Enterprise, OECD, Profit Split Method, PSM, Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: A12, C65, E62, F21, F23, F68, H21, H25, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fell, Lisa Maria, The Sales Country as a Tax Credit Country – Implementation Issues, Complexity Costs and Tax Planning (November 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3076774 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3076774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
This is similar as under the TPSM. See OECD, Revised Guidance on Profit Splits Posted: 2017
For the definition and identification of value chains for purposes of competitive advantage and cost analysis see Porter
Competitive Advantage , p. 64 - 70 Posted: 1985
For the identification of a value chain for tax purposes see e.g. Oestreicher, Konzern-Gewinnabgrenzung , p. 208 - 229 Posted: 2000
Tpg Oecd
, p. 234 - 235 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
RANK
549,213
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies