Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Use of I.R.C. Section 199

Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Pamela Gershuny

Southeast Missouri State University - Donald L. Harrison College of Business

Raymond E. Mueller

Independent

Date Written: September 25, 2016

Abstract

This paper compares the analysis of the DPAD under two tests, 1) the “20% safe harbor test” and 2) the significance test. Second, the paper considers whether 1) the deduction should be increased from 9% to 18% and 2) Sections 199(a) and (b) should be altered to reward firms who create and preserve jobs while earning income taxable in the U.S.

Keywords: Tax law, taxation, corporate tax, Internal Revenue Code, domestic activities production deduction, QPAI, DPAD, MPGE, Section 199, accounting, product manufacturing, employment, manufacturing, taxation, corporate tax, accounting,

Suggested Citation:

Gershuny, Pamela and Mueller, Raymond, Corporate Use of I.R.C. Section 199 (September 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077337
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
874
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies