Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Discrimination Aspects of Real Estate Investment Trusts

Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Vikram Chand

University of Lausanne

Date Written: September 01, 2010

Abstract

The use of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REIT” or “REITs”) has significantly expanded worldwide and more and more countries are introducing a REIT regime in their National legislation. Further, in order to achieve an efficient market for investments in immovable property, National laws of most countries allow REITs to invest abroad, in addition to domestic investments. Consequently, the movement of REIT investments across National boundaries can lead to cross border tax issues which can hinder movement of capital.

One such issue is whether a country is required to extend its domestic REIT regime to a permanent establishment (“PE”) of a foreign REIT, pursuant to a bilateral tax treaty that contains a provision similar to Article 24(3) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Developments (“OECD”) Model Tax Convention.

This Paper seeks to critically examine this issue above in light of the OECD’s position outlined in its report on tax treaty issues related to REITs and the OECD Commentary on Article 24. Accordingly, this paper is divided into four sections.

The first section of the paper provides an overview of the basic concepts of REITs. Specifically, the author discusses the definition, income streams and the tax treatment applicable to REITs. Thereafter, the author briefly discusses the discrimination problem of a foreign REITs PE and outlines the scope of the Paper.

Given the fact that cross border investments by REITs are allowed by National REIT regimes, the second section illustrates various situations where the business activities of a foreign REIT can trigger a PE in the country in which it invests (“Investee country” or “PE State”). Based on the research the author puts forth that a foreign REIT can trigger a fixed place PE, a construction PE or an agency PE in the country in which it invests. Nevertheless, the analysis of whether a PE exists or does not exist would directly depend on the nature of activities carried out by the REIT in the investee country.

The third section, which is the core of the paper, examines whether a PE of a foreign REIT should be treated at par with a domestic REIT. The author introduces the discrimination issue with an example and uses it to illustrate the tax obstacle suffered by a foreign REIT when it decides to go overseas. Further, as the provisions of Article 24(3) require a PE to be compared to a domestic enterprise which carries on same activities, the author discusses the exact object of comparison for a PE of a foreign REIT. Subsequently, the author discusses the view of the OECD on the discrimination issue. Thereafter, the author tests the compatibility of the OECD’s view with the interpretation of Article 24, especially in light of the existing OECD Commentary. Finally, in this section, the author discusses the potency of the OECD’s view and concludes by discussing the impact of his analysis on the leading National REIT tax regimes across the globe. The author notes that the OECD also realized the importance of removing tax obstacles suffered by foreign REITs. Accordingly, the OECD put forth three solutions in the OECD Report which could be used by a country to extend its domestic REIT regime to a foreign REIT.

In the fourth section, the author critically examines the solutions put forward by the OECD for extending equal treatment to foreign REITs and attempts to recommend simpler solutions that can be used to avoid discrimination issues.

Keywords: REITs, Non Discrimination, Permanent Establishment

Suggested Citation:

Chand, Vikram, Non-Discrimination Aspects of Real Estate Investment Trusts (September 01, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3077922
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
681
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies