Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash Dividends in Different Dividend Taxation Systems

46 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2017

Michael O'Connor Keefe

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Ratheshan Manickaratnam

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Date Written: November 21, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the cash flow sensitivity of cash dividends in different cash dividend taxation systems. Using a cross-country study, we find that a firm's dividend policy in a single dividend taxation system (relative to a double dividend taxation system) is more sensitive to cash flow as measured by the propensity to initiate a cash dividend, propensity to pay a cash dividend, and in the size of the cash dividend. The cash flow sensitivity of cash dividends is asymmetric -- firms in single taxation systems more aggressively adjust dividend policy when confronted with negative rather than positive cash flows. Our findings are qualitatively identical before and after the 2003 dividend tax cut in the United States.

Keywords: Dividends, Imputation, Cash Flow

JEL Classification: G35

Suggested Citation:

O'Connor Keefe, Michael and Manickaratnam, Ratheshan, The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash Dividends in Different Dividend Taxation Systems (November 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3078260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3078260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
RANK
631,616
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies