Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Deferred Tax Recognition and Measurement Under IFRS and Nigeria-SAS: An Empirical Examination

Ogbodo Cy. Okenwa, Francis, Egbunike Chinedu and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Assessment of Deferred Tax Recognition and Measurement Under IFRS and Nigeria- SAS: An Empirical Examination (November 24, 2017)

21 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2017

Ogbodo Cy. Okenwa

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Egbunike Francis

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Date Written: November 24, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the recognition and measurement of deferred taxes of manufacturing companies in Nigeria under IAS 12 and Nigerian-SAS. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences. The specific objective of the study is to determine the magnitude of change in deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities, and current taxes following the adoption of IAS 12. Three research hypotheses were formulated for the study. This study adopted the ex-post facto research design. The sample of the study comprises of fifteen (15) manufacturing companies in Nigerian. The study relied on secondary data from annual financial statements of the companies. The formulated hypotheses were analysed using paired samples t-test for difference, while linear regression was used to check for dependence. The analysis was performed with the aid of SPSS version 23. The dependent variables were proxied using deferred tax assets, liabilities and current tax liabilities as per IFRS reporting period while the independent variable were proxied using deferred tax assets, liabilities and current tax liabilities as per Nigerian-SAS reporting period. The study finds statistical significant change in deferred tax assets, tax liabilities, and current taxes. The findings also revealed a positive connection between deferred tax of manufacturing firms in Nigeria under IFRS and Nigerian-SAS. Consequent upon this study, it was recommended among others that deferred tax assets and liabilities are to be presented at the amounts that are expected to flow to or from the reporting entity when the tax benefits are ultimately realized or the tax obligations are settled.

Keywords: Deferred Tax, Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities, IFRS Recognition, Nigerian GAAP

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Okenwa, Ogbodo Cy. and Egbunike, Chinedu and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Assessment of Deferred Tax Recognition and Measurement Under IFRS and Nigeria-SAS: An Empirical Examination (November 24, 2017). Ogbodo Cy. Okenwa, Francis, Egbunike Chinedu and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Assessment of Deferred Tax Recognition and Measurement Under IFRS and Nigeria- SAS: An Empirical Examination (November 24, 2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3078059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
V N Abedana , K B Omane-Antwi , M Oppong
Adoption of IFRS/IAS in Ghana: Impact on the quality of corporate financial reporting and related corporate tax burden
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 7 , issue 8 , p. 10 - 25 Posted: 2016
U Oduware
IFRS adoption in Nigeria & optimizing the gains of global investment climate Posted: 2012
M Rosin
Will we ever close the GAAP?: A look into the international convergence of accounting standards
Michigan Business & Entrepreneurial Law Review , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 154 Posted: 2016
A Gyasi
Adoption of international financial reporting standards in developing countries-The case of Ghana. (BSc Dissertation)
University of Applied Sciences Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
405,369
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies