Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Land Assembly Without Eminent Domain: Laboratory Experiments of Two Tax Mechanisms

48 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017 Last revised: 10 Apr 2018

Mark DeSantis

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Matthew W. McCarter

University of Texas at San Antonio; Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Abel Winn

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 5, 2017

Abstract

We use laboratory experiments to test the ability of two self-assessment tax mechanisms to discourage seller holdout and facilitate land assembly. Each mechanism requires a seller to declare a price at which he is willing to sell his property. The incentive to overstate the value is mitigated by using the declared price to assess a property tax. The incentive to understate the value is mitigated by allowing developers to buy the property at the declared price. One tax mechanism uses tax formula that is complex to calculate but incentive compatible to elicit sellers’ true reservation values. The second uses a flat tax rate that is easy to implement but not incentive compatible. We find that sellers overstate their reservation values under both tax mechanisms. Nevertheless, both mechanisms increase the rate of successful land assembly by 67% and the gains from trade by more than 120% relative to a control treatment. Given their equal performance, the flat tax rate seems the best option given the easy of its implementation.

Keywords: land assembly, eminent domain, property rights, tax regimes

Suggested Citation:

DeSantis, Mark and McCarter, Matthew W. and Winn, Abel, Land Assembly Without Eminent Domain: Laboratory Experiments of Two Tax Mechanisms (December 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3083158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,442
RANK
233,376
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies