Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cryptocurrency & Robots: How to Tax and Pay Tax on Them

69 South Carolina Law Review 697 (69 S.C. L. Rev. 697)

68 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2017 Last revised: 3 Jun 2018

Sami Ahmed

Yale Law School

Date Written: December 6, 2017

Abstract

New technologies, such as blockchain, cryptocurrency (e.g., Bitcoin), and artificial intelligence are rapidly changing how transactions occur in the United States. While scholars have started to examine how a number of areas of law should adapt, very little work has been done on what these changes mean for taxation. Yet these developments could have a huge impact on tax revenues. For example, some approaches to taxing transactions using cryptocurrency could result in these transactions being conducted abroad, beyond the reach of the U.S. taxing authorities. And if robots replace large segments of the labor force, this could drastically shrink federal and state income tax bases.

The approach to taxing new technologies is a careful balance of capturing value and not disincentivizing growth. For example, if governments decide to levy a “robot tax” to replace revenues the income tax is no longer generating, they may accidentally stifle innovation in that jurisdiction.

At the same time, these new technologies also provide tools that governments can harness to levy taxes far more effectively than they currently do. For example, using blockchain technology to track the history of income and company shares allows for the potential of an integrated tax system, which combines the currently separate corporate and personal taxes into one unified taxation regime. The effects of this transition are a removal of many distortions and behavioral inefficiencies.

Just because technology can be used to levy taxes far more creatively does not mean that it should be. But given the rapid rate at which technological change is occurring, governments cannot afford to sit back and make these decisions by inertia. Rather, the main argument of this is that governments should: (i) recognize and adapt to shifting tax bases; and (ii) use technology such as blockchain to better target the populations and behaviors desired to be taxed. The paper recommends specific examples of how to better tax and use technologies, such as blockchain, to reform current taxation schemes.

There is also ample discussion of whether cryptocurrency will be regulated as a security (as per the Howey test and recent SEC enforcement actions), a discussion of foreign jurisdictions' approaches to cryptocurrency regulation and taxation, and recommendations to the SEC and IRS on how they should adjust their taxation of cryptocurrency.

Keywords: Bitcoin, Cryptocurrency, Robots, Tax, Integration, Taxation, International Tax

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Sami, Cryptocurrency & Robots: How to Tax and Pay Tax on Them (December 6, 2017). 69 South Carolina Law Review 697 (69 S.C. L. Rev. 697), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Donato Masciandaro
Central Bank Digital Cash and Cryptocurrencies: Insights from a New Baumol–Friedman Demand for Money
Australian Economic Review, Vol. 51, Issue 4, pp. 540-550, 2018 · 11 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,648
RANK
40,455
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies