Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Soda Taxes as a Legal and Social Movement

Northwestern Journal of Law and Social Policy, Forthcoming

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 17-27

25 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2017

David A. Dana

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law

Janice Nadler

Northwestern University - School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

In the last few years, several local governments have adopted new soda taxes. Other localities currently are considering adopting such a tax. In this Article, we consider whether soda taxes are becoming a more common local policy throughout the country — like local smoking restrictions — or whether, instead, they will remain a limited legal phenomenon. We focus on two potential obstacles to the widespread adoption of local soda taxes: (1) policy-based objections to the taxes as regressive and unduly paternalistic, which could undermine political support for their adoption at the local level; and (2) state preemption of local taxes, often achieved at the behest of the beverage industry. As we explain later, the principal risk of preemption vis-à-vis soda taxes does not come from the state courts in the form of decisions finding implied or field preemption, but rather from state statutes that expressly, unequivocally preempt such taxes. In almost all states, such express preemption would be considered lawful by the courts and would be effective in depriving localities of the power to impose taxes on soda.

Keywords: soda tax, preemption, politics, state and local government

JEL Classification: K10, K30

Suggested Citation:

Dana, David A. and Nadler, Janice, Soda Taxes as a Legal and Social Movement (December 1, 2017). Northwestern Journal of Law and Social Policy, Forthcoming, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 17-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3084818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
See Sanger-Katz
Id
Rute See , Office Pinho , Of Legislative , Local Research , Option Taxes
Posted: 2013
Vidya Kauri , Pa
Legislators Urge Court to Undo Philly Soda Ruling , volume 360 Posted: 2017-02-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,677
RANK
383,022
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies