Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unruly World of Tax: A Proposal for an International Tax Cooperation Forum

H. David Rosenbloom, Noam Noked & Mohamed S. Helal, The Unruly World of Tax: A Proposal for an International Tax Cooperation Forum, 15 Florida Tax Review 57 (2014)

Ohio State Public Law Working Paper No. 433

31 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017 Last revised: 6 Jun 2018

H. David Rosenbloom

Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered

Noam Noked

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Mohamed Helal

Ohio State University (OSU) - Michael E. Moritz College of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

International cooperation in tax policy is deeply fractured. Inconsistencies, loopholes, and ineffective mechanisms — which could be avoided if real collaboration among countries existed — have created significant inefficiency losses for decades. This Article focuses on the institutional infrastructure underlying international cooperation in tax issues and argues that the current forums in which such cooperation is encouraged do not provide an adequate platform in which countries with similar interests can effectively make a collaborative effort. To facilitate cooperation, this Article proposes to create a new institution currently missing from the international tax policy-setting arena: an informal forum for coordination among countries that share similar interests in tax policy, inspired by the model of "Like Minded Groups" in international organizations. This forum will enable countries that share similar interests to cooperate and reach understandings about necessary policy adaptations. We identify two major projects that this forum could promote — efforts to curtail tax evasion and efforts to harmonize various aspects of tax policy. We argue that this model might have significant advantages in promoting cooperation, reducing the "competitiveness" threat, advocating coordinated policies, and overcoming external and domestic pressures. In light of the current challenges in the field of tax policy, and the difficulties in forming international cooperation within the current institutional framework, the proposed model is worth serious discussion and consideration.

Keywords: International Taxation, Tax Competition, International Cooperation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rosenbloom, H. David and Noked, Noam and Helal, Mohamed, The Unruly World of Tax: A Proposal for an International Tax Cooperation Forum (2014). H. David Rosenbloom, Noam Noked & Mohamed S. Helal, The Unruly World of Tax: A Proposal for an International Tax Cooperation Forum, 15 Florida Tax Review 57 (2014) , Ohio State Public Law Working Paper No. 433, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3085449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Policy Leadership from the OECD to the G-20, 5 NW
J. L. & SOC. POL'Y , volume 19 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2010
Yariv Brauner
An International Tax Regime in Crystallization Posted: 2003
Arthur J Cockfield
World Taxation Organization" Through National Responses to E-Commerce Tax Challenges, 8 YALE
J.L. & TECH , volume 136 Posted: 2006
See Thuronyi
International Tax Cooperation, supra note 3, at 1641. 12. See Cockfield, Rise of the OECD, supra note 10, at 136. 13. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Posted: 2011-05-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,844
RANK
264,566
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University Moritz College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies