Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Capital Gains: A Comparative Analysis and Lessons for New Zealand

(2017) 23(4) New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 486-515

30 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

New Zealand is currently the only member country of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) without a formal, comprehensive regime in place for taxing the capital gains made by its personal and corporate residents. Being the outlier is insufficient justification for introducing a capital gains tax (CGT) in New Zealand, but it does raise issues — relevant to the current debate as to whether a CGT should be introduced — about how this position has arisen and whether it needs to be addressed. This article explores the trends in taxation of capital gains around the world and identifies the reasons that CGT has been — after the ubiquitous value-added taxes — the most widely introduced tax in recent decades. Most importantly, it considers the question of whether New Zealand actually needs a CGT and examines world’s best practice, which might help to shape the design of such a tax in New Zealand if it is concluded that a CGT is required.

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Krever, Richard, Taxing Capital Gains: A Comparative Analysis and Lessons for New Zealand (December 1, 2017). (2017) 23(4) New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 486-515, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3085713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Taxing Capital Gains: A Comparative Analysis and Lessons for New Zealand
Marriott
Crossref
Radio New Zealand
Govt to raise NZ Super age to 67 in 2040 Posted: 2017-03
New Zealand Treasury Half Year Economic and Fiscal Update Posted: 2016-12-08
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
786
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,841
RANK
72,940
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies