Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Tax Policy Approach to Designing Research & Development Tax Benefits

Noam Noked, Integrated Tax Policy Approach to Designing Research & Development Tax Benefits, 34 Virginia Tax Review 109 (2014)

47 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017 Last revised: 15 Jun 2018

Noam Noked

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Competition between countries on research & development (R&D) investments has never been fiercer as more countries try to increase their domestic R&D and become innovation-based economies. At the same time, the effort to curtail the ability of multinational entities to avoid taxation by shifting income to low-tax jurisdictions has become a top priority in the United States, the G20 and the OECD. The tension between these trends has received little attention from policy makers and analysts. This article contributes to the literature by presenting an integrated approach to designing optimal R&D tax benefits and assessing the effect of tax reform proposals on incentives for R&D investment.

According to the approach suggested here, we should fully analyze the effect of the tax system and of proposed reforms on incentives to invest in domestic R&D, as different tax rules create different incentives. Given the effect of the tax system, we should adopt a subsidy equal to the marginal positive externality from additional investment in R&D. In designing the subsidy, we should explore what structures and features would optimize domestic spillovers from R&D, whether it would be desirable to administer the subsidy through the tax system, and how to do so.

Applying the approach suggested in this article could lead to policy recommendations substantially different from the tax reforms currently promoted in Congress and the OECD.

Keywords: Taxation, R&D, Tax Benefits, Subsidies, Incentives, Innovation, Research & Development

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Noked, Noam, Integrated Tax Policy Approach to Designing Research & Development Tax Benefits (2014). Noam Noked, Integrated Tax Policy Approach to Designing Research & Development Tax Benefits, 34 Virginia Tax Review 109 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3085443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,238
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies