Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GST Cash and Accrual Mismatches: Avoiding the Avoidance

(2017) 46(4) Australian Tax Review 271-283

13 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2017

Yige Zu

Durham University

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

Australia, like many jurisdictions, allows small businesses to use cash-basis recognition of expenses and supplies when accounting for GST. Tax authorities in a number of countries have discovered that the availability of both cash-basis and accrual-basis rules opens the door to avoidance arrangements not contemplated by the legislature when the dual accounting rules were adopted. Enterprises exploited the timing mismatches between cash-basis vendors and accrual-basis customers to create input tax entitlements and consequent refunds for buyers where there were no contemporaneous output tax obligations for sellers. Legislators in the United Kingdom and New Zealand responded to these schemes with specific anti-avoidance rules. To date, Australian authorities have relied on ad hoc application of a general anti-avoidance rule to address the problem.This article considers whether a systematic fix derived from, but improving on, overseas models is preferable to the ad hoc approach currently used in Australia.

Keywords: GST/VAT mismatches, cash-basis accounting, accrual-basis accounting, tax avoidance, SAAR, GAAR

Suggested Citation:

Zu, Yige and Krever, Richard, GST Cash and Accrual Mismatches: Avoiding the Avoidance (December 1, 2017). (2017) 46(4) Australian Tax Review 271-283, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,681
RANK
538,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies