Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Influence of Different Interest Groups on International Tax Policy: Evidence from the BEPS Project

56 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2017 Last revised: 17 Jun 2021

Christina Elschner

European University Viadrina Frankfurt (Oder); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Inga Hardeck

University of Regensburg

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 13, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates the influence of businesses, the tax profession, and civil society on tax rules
in the context of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Base
Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project. We thereby aim to fill a research gap on the direct
influence of various interest groups on the content of tax rules. Using content analysis, we seek to
explain the lobbying success of interest groups by shedding light on the relevance of the kind of
information transmitted and the alliance strategies used. As long as all interest groups are equally
able to provide information, their lobbying success is mainly explained by their vested interests; in
such a case, businesses are less successful than other interest groups. For costly information in the form of proposals that require specific expertise, we show that the influence of businesses
increases. However, bias is still relevant for lobbying success; proposals from tax professionals
with practical experience are relatively more successful than proposals from businesses. Finally,
our results suggest that mobilizing commenters who have a shared interest is a promising lobbying
strategy.

Keywords: BEPS, comment letter, lobbying, aggressive tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, H26, K22, M48

Suggested Citation:

Elschner, Christina and Hardeck, Inga, Assessing the Influence of Different Interest Groups on International Tax Policy: Evidence from the BEPS Project (June 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3087502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A M Allen , K Ramanna , S Roychowdhury
Auditor lobbying on accounting standards
Finance, and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 331 Posted: 2018
Crossref
V P Baloria
Determinants and economic consequences of firm participation at policyrelated congressional hearings. Working paper Posted: 2017
V P Baloria , K J Klassen
Supporting tax policy change through accounting discretion: Evidence from the 2012 elections
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 10 , p. 4893 - 4914 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
273,040
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies