Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legality of the World Bank's Informal Decisions to Expand into the Tax Field, and Implications of These Decisions for Its Legitimacy

Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2017

15 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2017

Uyanga Dorlig

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: December 11, 2017

Abstract

The emergence of global tax governance was triggered by common tax problems, which are now still being faced by international society of nation-states. In the creation of this framework, international institutions have been playing a major role. One of these institutions is the World Bank (Bank). However, those who write about the virtues and vices of the main creators of the framework usually disregard the Bank. This article, therefore, argues that this disregard is not justified because the Bank has also been playing a prominent role. Since two informal decisions taken in the past have contributed to this position of the Bank, the article gives in addition to it answers to the following two related questions: whether these informal decisions of the Bank were legal and if so, what implications, if any, they have for the Bank’s legitimacy.

Keywords: World Bank, legality, legitimacy, global tax governance, tax policy and tax administration reforms

Suggested Citation:

Dorlig, Uyanga, Legality of the World Bank's Informal Decisions to Expand into the Tax Field, and Implications of These Decisions for Its Legitimacy (December 11, 2017). Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Art
31(2) of Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties
Art
31(3) of Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties
Art
31(4) of Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties
Art
32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies