Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Relationship with the Tax Profession

13 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2017

Michael D'Ascenzo

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Taxation and Business Law

Date Written: April 6, 2006

Abstract

In Australia, intermediaries such as tax agents have a symbiotic relationship with the tax administration.

Tax professionals play an essential role in maintaining the integrity and efficiency of the tax system, providing a key compliance leverage point to influence taxpayer behaviour.

Tax agents and the tax profession generally do an excellent job in helping people understand their rights and obligations under the tax law and making it easier for people to meet their tax responsibilities.

The importance of this role is highlighted by the numbers of taxpayers who put their trust in the expertise of tax professionals, with tax agents lodging about 74 per cent of individual tax returns and over 95 per cent of businesses' tax returns.

Keywords: tax agents, tax profession, Australia, tax admninistration

JEL Classification: K34, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

D'Ascenzo, Michael, A New Relationship with the Tax Profession (April 6, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3087596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies