Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring True Sales and Underreporting with Matched Firm-Level Survey and Tax Office Data

Review of Economics and Statistics, Vol. 96, No. 3, 2014

Posted: 4 Jan 2018

Fujin Zhou

Utrecht University School of Economics

Remco Oostendorp

Vrije Universiteit; Tinbergen Institute; University of Oxford - Centre for the Study of African Economies (CSAE)

Date Written: July 17, 2014

Abstract

This paper uses firm-level survey data matched with official tax records to estimate the unobserved true sales of formal firms in Mongolia. Taking into account firm-level incentives to comply with taxes and a production function technology linking unobserved true sales with observable firm-level production characteristics, we derive a multiple-indicators, multiple-causes model predicting true sales. We find that firms underreport sales to the tax office by 38.6%, but firm-level survey data also suffer from significant underreporting. Finally, we compare our approach with two alternative approaches of measuring underreporting and discuss the practical implications of the findings for firm-level analyses of underreporting.

Keywords: MIMIC, Underreporting, Investment Climate, Tax Compliance Model

JEL Classification: C390, D240, E260, H260

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Fujin and Oostendorp, Remco, Measuring True Sales and Underreporting with Matched Firm-Level Survey and Tax Office Data (July 17, 2014). Review of Economics and Statistics, Vol. 96, No. 3, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3088999
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies