Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tit for Tat: How Will Other Countries React to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act?

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-022

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 581

3 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2017 Last revised: 4 Jan 2018

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Gianluca Mazzoni

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: December 21, 2017

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TRA17) represents the most comprehensive reform of US international tax rules since 1962. An important question in evaluating TRA17 is how US trading partners will respond to its provisions. In general, US trading partners may take steps to negate the competitive advantage gained by the US from the lower rate of corporate tax, expensing and the “patent box”. They may also take advantage of the participation exemption and the cross-crediting feature of GILTI to increase taxes on US multinationals. Finally, they are likely to copy the BEAT and apply it to US multinationals. The end result would be that the anticipated benefit of attracting investment into the US is unlikely to materialize.

Keywords: Tax Reform, Tax Cuts, Jobs Act

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Mazzoni, Gianluca, Tit for Tat: How Will Other Countries React to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act? (December 21, 2017). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 17-022, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 581, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3089052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3089052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,537
RANK
134,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies