Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Lifecycle of a Single-Member LLC

This article first appeared in the Virginia Tax Review. 36 Va. Tax Rev. 323 (2017)

47 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2017 Last revised: 2 Dec 2019

Philip Manns

Liberty University - School of Law

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The single-member LLC (SMLLC) is ubiquitous. Despite its ubiquity, the Internal Revenue Code (Code) does not squarely address its tax consequences nor even contemplate its existence. This article examines the tax lifecycle of an SMLLC through its formation, operation, and exit event (e.g., sale, gift, or deathtime transfer).

This article identifies and isolates a tax asymmetry that arises from the U.S. Tax Court’s decision in Pierre v. Commissioner. Despite the check-the-box regulations, which disregard the SMLLC, Pierre regards the SMLLC for federal gift tax purposes. This asymmetry has several tax consequences, including a potential prophylactic immunization of transfers to SMLLCs against application of section 2036 — which claws back into the federal gross estate transfers when the transferor retains an interest — in the family partnership context.

Consequently, this article demonstrates that the SMLLC can be used to blunt the negative effects of section 2512 (a gift tax provision), section 1015 (an income tax provision), and section 2036 (an estate tax provision). In effect, due to the Pierre asymmetry, the SMLLC is the ideal initial entity in a gifting strategy.

Keywords: tax, LLC, SMLLC, single-member, business tax, Pierre, gift, transfer tax, gift tax, estate tax income tax, business planning

JEL Classification: K1, K10, K2, K22, K29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Manns, F. Philip and Todd, Timothy M., The Tax Lifecycle of a Single-Member LLC (2017). This article first appeared in the Virginia Tax Review. 36 Va. Tax Rev. 323 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Id
Id
Crossref
Tax Ct. Memo LEXIS Posted: 2010
Crossref
Id
at *9; see Pierre I, 133 T.C. at 27 n.6 ("[I]ssues of valuation will be addressed in a separate opinion
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,968
RANK
25,118
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies