Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Literacy of Australian Small Businesses

18(2) Journal of Australian Taxation 21-61, 2017

41 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2017 Last revised: 2 Jan 2018

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Toni Chardon

University of Southern Queensland

Mark Brimble

Griffith University - School of Accounting, Banking and Finance - Nathan and Logan Campuses; Centre for Financial Independence and Education

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Date Written: December 18, 2017

Abstract

Small businesses are a critical component of economies, although they face a myriad of issues, including their literacy in relation to a number of key business issues. In recent years tax literacy has been argued as an important part of financial literacy. Research has demonstrated that a person’s tax literacy is likely to be greater when they are self-employed and operate their own businesses. However, whether this increased tax literacy is sufficient to address the labyrinth of issues faced when running a business is questionable. This article reports further evidence about the tax literacy of Australians who have conducted a business in relation to GST, deductions and their compliance attitude. These findings can build the foundation for future work to explore how tax literacy is an important component of financial literacy for small businesses.

Keywords: tax literacy, financial literacy, Australia, small business, compliance, deterrence, gst, cash flow

JEL Classification: K34, H25, I22

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Chardon, Toni and Brimble, Mark and Belle Isle, Melissa, Tax Literacy of Australian Small Businesses (December 18, 2017). 18(2) Journal of Australian Taxation 21-61, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Eliza Ahmed , Valerie Braithwaite
Understanding Small Business Taxpayers Issues of Deterrence, Tax Morale, Fairness and Work Practice
International Small Business Journal , volume 23 , issue 5 Posted: 2005
G Michael , Agnar Allingham , Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 323 Posted: 1972
James Andreoni , Brian Erard , Jonathan Feinstein
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 818 Posted: 1998
S James , Ang
Small business uniqueness and the theory of financial management
Journal of Entrepreneurial Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
RANK
215,996
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies