Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All Things Being Equal: Small Business Structure Choice

12(1) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 136-165 (2017)

30 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2017

Barbara Trad

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 18, 2017

Abstract

In Australia there have been arguments about introducing new methodologies to tax small businesses. Recently Pitcher Partners submitted that a dual income tax (DIT) system should be introduced to achieve greater tax neutrality and to reduce complexity. However, what are the factors taken into account when a business structure is chosen for a small business, and how do these relate to the features of a DIT system? This article reports a pilot study that considered the factors for business structure choice, and whether a DIT system could provide such characteristics. It will be argued that for a DIT model to be successful in Australia it needs to address the taxation of retained business income and how it could apply to all business structures, including trusts.

Keywords: dual income tax, business structure, choice, small business, tax reform, Australia

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Trad, Barbara and Freudenberg, Brett, All Things Being Equal: Small Business Structure Choice (December 18, 2017). 12(1) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 136-165 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Michael Adler , Erio Ziglio
Gazing into the Oracle: The Delphi Method and its Application to Social Policy and Public Health
Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 1996
Jonas Agell , Peter Englund , Jan Sodersten
Incentives and Redistribution in the Welfare State: The Swedish Tax Reform Posted: 1998
Counts of Australian Businesses, including Entries and Exits Posted: 2010-06
Ben Ayers , Bryan Cloyd , John Robinson
Organizational Form and Taxes: An Empirical Analysis of Small Businesses' (1996) 18 The Journal of the American Taxation Association 49
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
753,736
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies