Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ten Questions About Why and How to Tax the Digitalized Economy

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-11

31 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2017 Last revised: 21 Dec 2017

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Date Written: December 21, 2017

Abstract

Much work has been done by international organizations, tax scholars around the world and business experts on the future shape of the taxation of the digitalized economy. Starting from the assumption that any “ring-fencing” of the digitalized economy should be avoided, it is far from easy to develop a framework in the context of the corporate income tax to capture profits derived by cross-border digital transactions in an orderly way. General notions like “economic allegiance”, the “benefit principle” or “digital presence” are unhelpful when it comes to sharing the pie between production countries and destination countries. Empowering the market countries can follow two different trajectories: a set of rules based on the notion of “digital presence” which simply looks to the demand side of the market, or a set of rules based on the notion of “digital investment” as a proxy for a productive source of income set-up by the taxpayer in regard of the market. While these pathways should be explored in the next couple of years, any search for a “quick fix” might not only be distortive and inefficient, it might also stand in the way of a new international consensus built around a new set of overall tax principles. Temporary measures might easily translate into permanent measures. Anybody who attempts to introduce specific tax treatment for the digitalized economy should be as transparent as possible with regard to the ten major policy questions outlined in this article.

Keywords: International Tax Law, Digitalization, Digitized Economy, Corporate Tax, Tax Reform

JEL Classification: F23, H21, H25, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, Ten Questions About Why and How to Tax the Digitalized Economy (December 21, 2017). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2017-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3091496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3091496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
/ Devereux , Vella
Posted: 2017
Addressing, para 284 et seq.; International Allicance for Principled Taxation Comment supra p.A-7/64 et seq., para 25 et seq.; Loyens & Loeff Comment supra p.6/139
Olbert/Spengel supra p.15, 17; Pinto supra p
Hongler/Pistone supra p.32 et seq.; see also Blum supra
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,443
RANK
6,647
5 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies