Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will BEPS Allow New Zealand to Finally Tax Google?

22 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2017

Andrew M. C. Smith

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: December 24, 2017

Abstract

Tax avoidance by major US multinationals has been extremely topical over the last decade since the GFC. One of the MNEs at the forefront of this controversy is Google. It has been able to snare a dominant share of the international online advertising market without paying any significant amounts of tax in countries where it obtains orders other than the US.

It has been able to do so by structuring its affairs so that it does not have a “permanent establishment” (PE) in New Zealand. Instead its New Zealand customers conclude contracts directly with Google subsidiaries in countries which New Zealand has concluded a DTA with but otherwise impose low taxes such as Singapore and Ireland.

The BEPS project has been undertaken by the OECD to deal with MNE tax avoidance. New Zealand has been an active participant in this project seeing a multilateral forum such as the OECD as the best way to deal with this problem rather than taking independent steps of its own. The multilateral instrument (MLI) arising out of the BEPS project is designed to modify a large number of the world’s DTAs at one time to deal with this tax avoidance problem such PE avoidance by MNEs such as Google.

The MLI is a modular convention in that signatory states do not have to agree to adopt all parts of it. This paper analyses the responses of several of New Zealand’s key DTA partners in respect of Part IV of the MLI dealing with PE avoidance. It will be concluded that the MLI is unlikely to prove effective for New Zealand in deal with tax avoidance by Google. It appears that New Zealand may need to adopt a unilateral strategy to effectively tax Google on its profits earned from New Zealand advertisers outside the BEPS project which is proposed in a bill introduced to the New Zealand Parliament in December 2017. Consideration is finally made whether this bill will be effective in securing tax revenue from MNEs such as Google.

Keywords: Multinational,Tax Avoidance, Permanent Establishment, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Andrew M. C., Will BEPS Allow New Zealand to Finally Tax Google? (December 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3092781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Matt Refer , Nippert
Top multinationals pay almost no tax in New Zealand Posted: 2017-06
Refer Nash , Hon Stuart
At the same point the relationship between the proposed section GB54 and the general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR) (section BG 1, ITA 2007) is also discussed , volume 44 Posted: 2017-12
Refer Shreya Rao
Ganesh Rajgopalan examines whether the levy might contravene India's obligations under the WTO agreements and concludes that it probably does and that modification of it should be made. Refer Rajgopalan, G; "Equalisation Levy -Applicability of Non-Discrimination Rules in International Agreements
The Indian Equalisation Levy: Inelegant But Not Unexpected , volume 2 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2016-07
Nicholas Refer , Jones
$200m extra a year from closing multinational tax loopholes: Government Posted: 2017-08-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,627
RANK
336,300
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies