Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing with One Hand Tied Behind Your Back – An Australian Perspective on United States Tax Rules for Non-Resident Citizens

12 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2018

Karen Alpert

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 8, 2018

Abstract

The United States is unique in taxing non-resident citizens under the same rules as residents. For Australian citizens and residents who are also US taxpayers, the impact of this is much greater than the generally minimal amount of US tax due each year. The US grants citizenship broadly and makes it difficult and expensive to cleanly exit the US tax system. Planning one’s tax affairs under two very different tax systems is complex and often results in sub-optimal financial outcomes. Australian citizens and permanent residents who are required to file US tax returns will find it more difficult to effectively save for retirement than their peers, and will be more likely to rely on the Australian government’s social safety net in their later years.

The US tax code significantly discriminates against many non-US investments and business structures, which constrains the options of affected Australian-resident taxpayers, many of whom are also Australian citizens. The treatment of Australian superannuation on a US tax return is the subject of some disagreement among tax professionals. Australian investment opportunities outside of superannuation are also limited for US taxpayers. Australian managed funds are punitively taxed under the Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) rules. For entrepreneurs and small business owners, the US tax treatment of “foreign” corporations owned or controlled by a US person can unravel any Australian tax advantages. Family trust structures often recommended for asset protection and tax planning purposes in Australia would likely be treated as disregarded entities on a US tax return. Finally, US law may make it difficult for non-resident US citizens to open financial accounts in the US making it difficult to avoid the punitive US tax treatment of Australian investments. Although this paper focuses on Australia and the interplay between US and Australian tax rules, the issues raised are broadly applicable to US citizens residing anywhere outside of the US.

Keywords: Taxation, Citizenship Taxation, Tax Treaties, Australia, United States

JEL Classification: K34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Alpert, Karen, Investing with One Hand Tied Behind Your Back – An Australian Perspective on United States Tax Rules for Non-Resident Citizens (January 8, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3097931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3097931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Pub Law 115-97. Originally submitted to Congress with a short title of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), this short title was ruled out of order in the final Senate vote on the bill
See the Conference Report (H. Rept. 115-466 -TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT , p. 489 - 492
Crossref
M Reed
owners of Canadian firms wary of Trump's tax plan, The Globe and Mail
Impact of New US Tax Law on US Citizens in Canada Posted: 2017-11-28
Nightingale
63 §951A added by Sec. 14201 of TCJA
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
865
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,053
RANK
64,018
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies