Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mental Accounting and Taxpayer Compliance: Insights into the Referent Point that Separates Honest from Dishonest Behavior

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

34 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2018

Ian Burt

Niagara University

Linda Thorne

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jay K. Walker

Old Dominion University - Economics

Date Written: December 25, 2017

Abstract

Empirical results grounded in prospect theory shows that taxpayers’ compliance is a function of whether they are in a tax gain or loss position, being more likely to “cheat” when they perceive that they are in a tax loss as compared to tax gain. Nevertheless, what remains to be determined is how taxpayers mentally determine what is a tax loss or a tax gain. We conduct a field experiment when taxpayers are filing actual returns to better determine the actual referent point that separates tax gains from tax losses. We find that mental categorization of taxes paid and owed is critical to taxpayer determination of their referent point, which takes into account what they anticipate they will owe or receive upon filing their tax return. From a theoretical perspective, our research shows that current perceptions of their expected asset position shapes the referent point. From a practical perspective, our findings suggest that taxpayer honesty depends primarily on how they separate tax withholdings from their current net worth.

Suggested Citation:

Burt, Ian and Thorne, Linda and Walker, Jay K., Mental Accounting and Taxpayer Compliance: Insights into the Referent Point that Separates Honest from Dishonest Behavior (December 25, 2017). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3098194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
I Ajzen , M Fishbein
Attitude-behavior relations: A theoretical analysis and review of empirical research
Psychological bulletin , volume 84 , issue 5 , p. 888 - 898 Posted: 1977
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L Barsalou
Context-independent and context-dependent information in concepts
Memory & Cognition , volume 10 , p. 82 - 93 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,873
RANK
386,928
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies