Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fairness: A Dire International Tax Standard with No Meaning?

Intertax, Volume 45, Issue 12, 2017

Posted: 12 Jan 2018

Irene Burgers

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Irma Johanna Mosquera Valderrama

Leiden University, Institute of Tax Law and Economics

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

In their discussions on corporate income tax systems the International Organizations OECD, UN, IMF and World Bank, Supranational Organizations, Non-Governmental Organizations, associations of practitioners and Governments often refer to the concept of fairness without proper definition of what in the context of their arguments is fairness and how the fairness can be achieved. The consequence is that fairness in taxation is a blurred concept.

This article shows that fairness in taxation has an economical, juridical, philosophical and political perspective. Following the overview of these perspectives, this article calls for more research on global perceptions of fairness and for formulating an agenda for discussing this issue by International Organizations, Supranational Organizations, Non-Governmental Organizations and Governments.

Keywords: fairness, international tax, legitimacy, equality, developing countries, international organizations, tax systems

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Burgers, Irene and Mosquera Valderrama, Irma Johanna, Fairness: A Dire International Tax Standard with No Meaning? (October 1, 2017). Intertax, Volume 45, Issue 12, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098728
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,361
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies