Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Adopting IFRS on Corporate ETR and Book-Tax Income Gap

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(4), 2017

36 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2018

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Ying Hui Zhu

Independent

Date Written: August 19, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the impact of the adoption of the Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (AIFRS) on the corporate effective tax rate and book-tax income gap in Australia. Book-tax income gap is measured by the differences between a firm’s effective tax rate (ETR) or current effective tax rate (CETR) and the statutory tax rate (STR). The difference between ETR and STR measures permanent book-tax income gap only, while the difference between CETR and STR measures the total (permanent and temporary) book-tax income gap. This study also examines whether the major accounting rule changes from the previous Australian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles/Practices (AGAAP) to AIFRS, as measured by their respective adjustment to profit before tax and tax expense deflated by the total assets of the firm, affect the changes in ETR and CETR on the adoption of AIFRS in 2005.

The results show that, first, the adoption of AIFRS has lowered the CETR only and widened the total (hence temporary) but not permanent book-tax income gap. Total book-tax income gap has been widened by 1.51 percentage points caused by changes in temporary differences. Second, the impact of adopting AIFRS on CETR and ETR does not vary significantly across firm sizes and industry affiliations. Third, among the ten major accounting rule changes, it is found that total book-tax income gap has been widened because the positive impacts due to the rule changes of goodwill, intangibles (other than goodwill) and provisions outweigh the negative impacts brought by the rule changes of impairment of assets and tax expense.

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Alfred and Zhu, Ying Hui, The Impact of Adopting IFRS on Corporate ETR and Book-Tax Income Gap (August 19, 2017). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 32(4), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3099201
Purchase - $45
0 References
2 Citations
Ines Menchaoui , Rossignol Jean-Luc , Omri Mohamed Ali
Fiscal Management Practices and Their Impact on Corporate Groups’ Fiscal Performance
Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 73-86 · 14 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2017 · Downloads: 120
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdelkader Kasraoui
Post Tax Reform and Corporate Effective Tax Rate: Evidence from Tunisia
11 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2020 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies