Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Incidence in India

Levy Economics Institute Working Papers No. 898

35 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018

Samiksha Agarwal

National Institute of Public Finance and Policy

Lekha Chakraborty

Bard College - The Levy Economics Institute; National Institute of Public Finance and Policy

Date Written: November 12, 2018

Abstract

The paper attempts to measure the incidence of corporate income tax in India under a general equilibrium setting. Using seemingly uncorrelated regression coefficients and dynamic panel estimates, we tried to analyze both the relative burden of corporate tax borne by capital and labor and the efficiency effects of corporate income tax. The data for the study is compiled from corporate firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India (NSE) for the period 2000-15. Our empirical estimates suggest that in India capital bears more of the burden of corporate taxes than labor. Though it is contrary to the Harberger (1962) hypothesis that the burden of corporate tax is shifted to labor rather than capital, it confirms the existing empirical results in the context of India.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, Tax Incidence, Capital, Labor

JEL Classification: C33; H22; H25

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Samiksha and Chakraborty, Lekha S., Corporate Tax Incidence in India (November 12, 2018). Levy Economics Institute Working Papers No. 898, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3100911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
T W Anderson , C Hsiao
Estimation of Dynamic Models with Error Components
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 76 , issue 375 , p. 598 - 606 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Manuel Arellano , Stephen R Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 97 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Arulampalam , Michael P Wiji , Giorgia Devereux , Maffini
Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation Working Paper No. 07 Posted: 2007
Alan J Auerbach
Who Bears the Corporate Tax? A Review of What We Know Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
401,129
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies