Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Industry Product Market Competition and Efficiency of Corporate Tax Management

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

43 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2018

Tina Wang

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: January 15, 2018

Abstract

Economic theory suggests that product market competition should enhance firm performance. However, relatively little empirical evidence supports this long-held belief. We use the U.S. corporate tax management setting to test the relationship between product market competition and firm performance. We find that firms in competitive industries manage their taxes more efficiently than their counterparts in non-competitive industries. Specifically, we document that firms in competitive industries exhibit lower effective tax rates than their noncompetitive counterparts. Furthermore, we find that the positive link between competition and tax management efficiency is much stronger for firms with lower cash flow volatility and for firms with fewer industry investment opportunities. Finally, we find that increased regulation and tax enforcement do not weaken the effect of competition on the efficiency of tax management. Further analysis reveals that firms in competitive industries resort mainly to tax planning strategies other than abusive tax sheltering to manage taxes.

Keywords: Product market competition; efficiency of tax management; effective tax rate; tax planning; firm performance

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Tina, Industry Product Market Competition and Efficiency of Corporate Tax Management (January 15, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3102046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The Limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with COMPUSTAT data: Implications for finance research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G S Allayannis , J E Ihrig
Exposure and markups
Review of Financial Studies , volume 14 , p. 805 - 835 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Lacker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Cai , Q Liu
Competition and corporate tax avoidance: evidence from Chinese industrial firms
The Economic Journal , volume 119 , p. 764 - 795 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,748
RANK
371,877
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies