Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Objective or Subjective - Anti-Treaty Shopping Policy in Selected Asian Jurisdictions in the Post-BEPS World

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2018-S-73, Vol. 6, No. 1, Special Issue: Tax

52 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018

Sunghak Baik

Ernst & Young LLP

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

BEPS Action 6 proposes two distinct anti abuse measures to be incorporated into the OECD Model Convention and subsequently into the various bilateral tax treaties: A Limitation on Benefits (LoB) clause and Principal Purpose Test (PPT). While both anti abuse measures are new to the OECD Model Convention, various countries around the world have implemented either LoB or PPT clauses or both into their tax treaties. This paper analyses the treaty network of eight Asian / Pacific jurisdictions (Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, and Taiwan) with respect to the anti-abuse measures employed in these treaties. The majority of the more than 500 treaties in the sample do not included an anti-abuse measure of any kind. While the use of anti-abuse rules in general is highly diverse, the choice of the preferred measure if an anti-abuse rule is incorporated in the treaty is quite homogeneous. The one measure most often used is the principal purpose test (or a variation thereof), with 113 individual treaties containing that test. LoB clauses are used in only 16 treaties. The historical development of the treaty networks shows a strong increase in the (relative) importance of the PPT since 43% of all new treaties concluded after 2009 contain such a provision while only 5% of these treaties contain a LoB.

Suggested Citation:

Baik, Sunghak and Petutschnig, Matthias, Objective or Subjective - Anti-Treaty Shopping Policy in Selected Asian Jurisdictions in the Post-BEPS World (January 1, 2018). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2018-S-73, Vol. 6, No. 1, Special Issue: Tax, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3104976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3104976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Art 23 of the Australia-Japan Tax Treaty
Art , volume 10 , issue 11
Crossref
Art 24 of the Australia-Japan Tax Treaty
Art , volume 10 , issue 10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
RANK
324,400
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies