Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation and Corporate Tax Planning: The Distinct Effects of Patents and R&D

Contemporary Accounting Research 38(1): 621-653

56 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2018 Last revised: 27 Sep 2021

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Peng Guo

Rutgers Business School - Camden

Chia-Hsiang Weng

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 14, 2020

Abstract

Using a large U.S. sample, we find a significant and positive relation between patents and corporate tax planning, and the effect is incremental to the effect of R&D on tax planning. We employ a quasi-natural experiment based on staggered industry-level innovation shocks to identify the positive causal effect of patents on corporate tax planning. We also find that patents are not associated with tax planning for domestic firms, but their association with tax planning is concentrated in multinational firms, which have the ability to shift domestic income to low-tax countries. Moreover, we find that the identified effect mainly exists in the post-check-the-box (CTB) rule period when shifting income among affiliates becomes more flexible and convenient. Finally, we use two income shifting models and find that patents, rather than R&D, facilitate tax planning through an income shifting channel. Overall, our results suggest that R&D and patents facilitate firms’ tax planning in distinct ways: R&D facilitates tax planning as intended through tax credits and deductions, whereas patents are used to avoid taxes aggressively by taxpayers through income shifting.

Keywords: Tax Planning; Tax Avoidance; Income Shifting; Innovation; Patents; R&D; Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: H20, M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Guo, Peng and Weng, Chia-Hsiang and Wu, Qiang, Innovation and Corporate Tax Planning: The Distinct Effects of Patents and R&D (April 14, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research 38(1): 621-653, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3105186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
K R Ahern , J Harford
The importance of industry links in merger waves
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 576 Posted: 2014
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
B C Ayers , C M Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: The magnitude and determinants of undisclosed permanently reinvested earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
S Bernstein
Does going public affect innovation?
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 4 , p. 1365 - 1403 Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Theresia Woro Damayanti
THE EFFECT OF IFRS ADOPTION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ON BOOK TAX AGGRESSIVENESS: EVIDENCE FROM ASEAN COUNTRIES
Business: Theory and Practice , volume 20 , issue 0 , p. 284 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,333
RANK
129,714
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies