Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Dynamics between Local and International Tax Planning in Multinational Corporations

Review of Accounting Studies, accepted.

59 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2018 Last revised: 21 Jun 2022

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

The international dimension of multinational corporations (MNCs) creates opportunities for pursuing both global as well as local (i.e., unilateral subsidiary country) tax planning strategies. To date, however, we have limited insights into both the dynamics and relative importance of one versus another strategy for MNCs. We propose and test a group-level ETR-based measure of profit shifting and validate it by showing it correctly identifies profit shifting reductions when shifting costs increase. We confirm that MNCs can keep group ETRs stable after the introduction of tighter tax compliance and documentation rules and suggest they can do so by relying relatively more on local tax planning activities. In line with the substitution argument, we document that especially groups identified as ex-ante income shifters as well as groups with greater target ETR pressure are responsible for the results.

Keywords: Tax planning, tax avoidance, profit shifting, local tax strategies, multinational corporations

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Pierk, Jochen, On the Dynamics between Local and International Tax Planning in Multinational Corporations (June 21, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, accepted. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3108489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3108489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
A Alexander , A De Vito , M Jacob
Corporate tax reforms and tax-motivated profit shifting: Evidence from the EU
Hyperlink reference not valid , volume 50 , p. 309 - 326 Posted: 2020
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Meyers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
S Beer , J Loeprick
Profit shifting: drivers of transfer (mis)pricing and the potential of countermeasures
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , p. 426 - 451 Posted: 2015
Load more
3 Citations
Stacie Kelley , Dan Lynch , Mary Vernon
The Association between Internal Information Quality and State Tax Planning
44 Pages · Posted: 11 Nov 2017 · Downloads: 324
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Henning Giese , Reinald Koch , Markus Gamm
Tax Avoidance and Vertical Interlocks within Multinational Corporations
Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 270 · 49 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 6 May 2025 · Downloads: 154
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Baban Eulaiwi , Fatmah Saeed Alghamdi , Ahmed Al-Hadi , Lien Duong , Grantley Taylor
The Effect of Income Shifting Incentives on Share Repurchases Evidence from U.S. Multinational Corporations
GFJ-D-23-00191 · 40 Pages · Posted: 26 May 2023 · Downloads: 51
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,380
RANK
134,221
3 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies