Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leverage, Corporate Taxes and Debt Shifting of Multinationals: The Impact of Firm-Specific Risk

31 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2018

Ulrich Glogowsky

Johannes Kepler University Linz

Matthias Dischinger

University of Munich

Marcus Strobel

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Date Written: January 21, 2015

Abstract

Firms have the incentive to enhance debt financing with higher corporate tax rates due to the increased value of interest deductions from the tax base. However, external debt is relatively costly for corporations with a high firm-specific risk. Moreover, for multinationals, the shifting of internal debt opens up additional tax saving opportunities. Using a large database of European multinationals for the years 1998–2006, first, we provide evidence that the debt-to-assets ratio is positively affected by the statutory corporate tax rate. Second, we show that multinational subsidiaries use debt shifting with the parent as well as external debt to get advantage of the depreciation tax shield. Third, we provide evidence that subsidiaries with a high firm-specific risk are more involved in debt shifting than low-risk subsidiaries. Vice-versa, low-risk affiliates use external debt more intensively. We address endogeneity concerns on our firm-specific risk proxies with a sectoral analysis comparing high-risk with low-risk industries based on exogenous information and find a similar, even more extreme pattern.

Keywords: multinational enterprise, corporate taxation, debt financing, profit shifting, firm-specific risk proxy variables

JEL Classification: H25, F23, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Glogowsky, Ulrich and Dischinger, Matthias and Strobel, Marcus, Leverage, Corporate Taxes and Debt Shifting of Multinationals: The Impact of Firm-Specific Risk (January 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3110185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3110185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation Taxes, Repatriation Strategies and Multinational Financial Policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A J Auerbach
Taxation and Corporate Financial Policy
Handbook of Public Economics , volume 3 , p. 1251 - 1292 Posted: 2002
Thiess Buettner , Michael Overesch , Ulrich Schreiber , Georg Wamser
Taxation and Capital Structure Choice - Evidence from a Panel of German Multinationals
ZEW Discussion Paper No. 06-067 Pages: 18 Posted: 7 Oct 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Büttner , G Wamser
Intercompany Loans and Profit Shifting -Evidence from Company-Level Data
CESifo Working Paper Series Posted: 1959
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,375
RANK
730,413
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies