Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an International Code for Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matter and International Tax Governance

REVISTA DERECHO DEL ESTADO, No. 40, Enero-Junio de 2018

41 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2018

Eva Andres Aucejo

University of Barcelona

Date Written: January 30, 2018

Abstract

There is not a “Global Code” that encodes the duty of cooperation between tax authorities in the world, concerning the global tax system. This article addresses this issue by proposing a global Code of administrative cooperation in tax matters including both tax relations: between States, and between States, taxpayers and intermediary’s agents. It follows a wide concept of tax governance. The findings of this research have highlighted several practical applications for future practice. article analyses, firstly, the State of the question, starting with the legal sources (international and European sources of hard law and soft law) reviewing the differences with the Code as here proposed. It also examines some important Agents who emit relevant normative in international administrative tax cooperation and the role that these agents are developing nowadays (sometimes international organizations but also States like the United States, which Congress enacted the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, FATCA). Overlapping and gaps between different regulations are underlined. Finally, the consequences of this “General Code” lack for the functioning of a good international governance, are described. Hence, the need to create an International Cooperation Code on tax matters and international fiscal governance is concluded. That Code could be proposed by any International Organization as the World Bank nature, for instance, or the International Monetary Fund or whichever International or European Organization. This instrument could be documented through a multilateral instrument (soft law), to be signed by the States to become an international legal source (hard law). Filling this Code as Articulated Text (form) could be very useful for the International Community towards an International Tax Governance.

Keywords: Code, international cooperation, FATCA, automatic exchange of information, common reporting standard, global code in tax matters, Art. 26 MC Organisation for Economic Cooperation (OECD) and Development, soft law, global

Suggested Citation:

Andres Aucejo, Eva, Towards an International Code for Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matter and International Tax Governance (January 30, 2018). REVISTA DERECHO DEL ESTADO, No. 40, Enero-Junio de 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3113628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
To create it, the author was working many years before, motiving to create a Global Tax Cooperation multilateral instrument
Competitiveness Posted: 2015-08
Ministry of Economy and "Competitiveness" of Spain (Excellence Projects, call 2015), which resulted in funding in 2016 for the following four years Posted: 2016
Crossref
The further development of this article has been carried out in the Universities of Barcelona; London School of Economics and Political Sciences
Georgetown University. Washington (2017) and the World Bank Posted: 2016
The main proposal about an "International Administrative Code in Tax Matters" had been made public by her Author, Eva Andrés Aucejo, in the , volume 72 Posted: 2017-01
Load more
1 Citations
Antonio Lopo Martinez , Marielza Nascimento , Julia Coutinho , Josiel Rodrigues
Between the Sword and the Wall: Navigating the Brazilian Tax Labyrinth Through Tax Aggressiveness and Tax Litigiousness
21 Pages · Posted: 26 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
514,796
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies