Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Accounting Conservatism

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-04

44 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2018

Tobias Bornemann

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

This study analyzes the relation between accounting conservatism, future tax rate cuts and countries’ level of book-tax conformity. Firms have an incentive to increase conservatism in ﬁnancial reporting when a tax rate cut is imminent to shift taxable income into the lower taxed future. Using a panel of ﬁrms across 18 countries from 1995 to 2010 I ﬁnd that conditional conservatism is positively and signiﬁcantly associated with future tax rate cuts when book-tax conformity is high. This eﬀect is particularly pronounced for ﬁrms that concentrate the majority of their operations in the country in which the tax rate is cut. In contrast, there is no signiﬁcant relation between future tax rate cuts and unconditional conservatism.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, tax rate cuts, book-tax conformity

JEL Classification: H21, H25, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bornemann, Tobias, Tax Avoidance and Accounting Conservatism (February 1, 2018). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3114054 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3114054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
K Lin , L F Mills , F Zhang
Public versus Private Firm Responses to the Tax Rate Reduction in China
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 163 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E L Maydew
Tax-induced Earnings Management by Firms with Net Operating Losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 96 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B Osswald , C Sureth-Sloane
How does Country Risk affect the Impact of Taxes on Corporate Risk-Taking? Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,488
RANK
41,246
2 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies