Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Intellectual Property Boxes on Innovative Activity & Effective Tax Rates

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-03

62 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2018 Last revised: 8 Sep 2020

Tobias Bornemann

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 2020

Abstract

We exploit a quasi-experimental setting to cleanly identify the effect of the adoption of an intellectual property box (IP box) on innovative activity and effective tax rates. We document an increase in innovative activity, including patent applications, grants, and highly-skilled employment, at the expense of patent quality. Domestic firms drive this effect. We also provide evidence that firms with patents, on average, enjoy 7.2 percent to 7.9 percent lower effective tax rates, with the most significant financial benefits accruing to multinational firms compared to domestic firms. Within multinational firms, those without outbound income-shifting opportunities appear to benefit more than other multinationals. Relative to studies that use heterogeneous IP boxes, our results suggest an IP box that provides tax benefits for patent income only leads to a reasonable increase in innovative activity of 0.4 to 5.1 percent, with multinationals benefitting disproportionately from a financial perspective.

Keywords: IP boxes, tax incentive, tax avoidance, income shifting

JEL Classification: H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bornemann, Tobias and Kelley, Stacie and Osswald, Benjamin, The Effect of Intellectual Property Boxes on Innovative Activity & Effective Tax Rates (August 2020). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3115977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3115977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
H Almeida , M B Campello , S Laranjeira , Weisbrenner
Corporate Debt Maturity and the Real Effects of the
Credit Crisis. Critical Finance Review , p. 3 - 58 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodeme , A M Skonieczna , A Vezzani
Patent boxes design, patents location and local R&D
Economic Policy , issue 33 , p. 131 - 177 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Harald Johannes Amberger , Benjamin Osswald
Patent Concentration, Limited Comparable Information, and Tax-Motivated Income Shifting
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-05 Pages: 59 Posted: 18 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Dec 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Andrews , C Criscuolo , C Menon
Do Resources Flow to Patenting Firms? -Cross-Country Evidence from Firm Level Data Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,090
RANK
42,692
15 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies