Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Visualization of World-Scale Evidence on Tax Avoidance and Tax Rate Convergence

24 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2020

Chika Saka

Kwansei Gakuin University; Kwansei Gakuin University

Tomoki Oshika

Waseda University

Masayuki Jimichi

Kwansei Gakuin University - School of Business Administration

Date Written: January 31, 2018

Abstract

Purpose

Firm tax avoidance has gathered substantial public attention in both practice and academic literature. We study tax avoidance among firms and countries using the visualization of accounting data of all of listed firms from 148 countries from 1985 to 2015.

Design/methodology/approach

Over 30 years of financial data on all listed firms from 148 countries and provides world-scale evidence on tax avoidance and tax rates convergence. The research design uses exploratory data analysis and reproducible research using data visualization tools, namely, R with dplyr, ggplot2, and googleVis (Geo Chart and Motion Chart).

Findings

We provide world-scale evidence on (1) firms’ tax avoidance, showing a non-random distribution of firms’ effective tax rates and return on assets using visualization from 1985 to 2015, and (2) downward convergence trend of firms’ effective and statutory tax rates among 58 countries over the past 20 years.

Originality/Value

This study makes two key contributions to the literature. First, this is the first to provide world-scale evidences on the tax avoidance and convergence trends of tax rates. Second, we use the visualization method, which allows easily understanding of what is happening around the world. Research Implications

Our results highlight the tax avoidance issue, which can no longer be ignored, and facilitate a collaborative discussion between non-specialists and professionals with objective evidence from visualization.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Convergence, Data Visualization, Exploratory Data Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Saka, Chika and Saka, Chika and Oshika, Tomoki and Jimichi, Masayuki, Visualization of World-Scale Evidence on Tax Avoidance and Tax Rate Convergence (January 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3115022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3115022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Notes: This five-dimensional (5-D) figure plots the following
Vertical (y) axis: median of effective tax rate of all listed firms in the country
Horizontal (x) axis: statutory tax rate of the country
Area of circle: sum of total assets (USD billion) of all listed firms in the country
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,742
RANK
446,627
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies