Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodbye to All That?: A Requiem for the Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax

Bulletin for International Taxation, 2018 (Volume 72), No. 4/5

NYU School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 18-12

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-05

Posted: 14 Feb 2018 Last revised: 9 Nov 2022

Daniel Shaviro

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the author addresses the destination-based cash flow tax, which was recently proposed as a tax reform option in the United States, compares it to its forebears, the flat tax and the X-tax, and concludes that, although its substance has potential merit, it does not warrant further consideration in tax policy debate.

Keywords: tax reform, destination-based cash flow tax, border adjusted tax, corporate income taxation, value-added taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Shaviro, Daniel, Goodbye to All That?: A Requiem for the Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax (March 1, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation, 2018 (Volume 72), No. 4/5, NYU School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 18-12, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3116406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3116406
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

NYU School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies