Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cadbury Schweppes Judgment and Its Implications on Profit Shifting Activities within Europe

40 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2018

Sabine Schenkelberg

University of Cologne

Date Written: February 5, 2018

Abstract

In 2006, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) decided with the Cadbury Schweppes judgment that European Controlled-Foreign-Company (CFC) rules infringe the principle of freedom of establishment and restricted the applicability thereof. This paper analyzes the impact of mandatory amendments to European CFC rules on tax planning activities within Europe. Using a difference-in-differences approach, my results provide robust evidence that pre-tax earnings of subsidiaries located in European low-tax jurisdictions have increased by around 10 % after the Cadbury Schweppes judgment. My analysis shows further that the increase of pre-tax earnings is related to facilitated profit shifting activities. Multinational corporations with high incentives or enhanced profit shifting opportunities react more pronounced to the Cadbury Schweppes judgment. The findings point out that CFC rules became less effective and thus, profit shifting activities within Europe are less restricted after the ECJ judgment. Additional tests suggest further that on average 90 % of the increase in pre-tax earnings is attributable to strategic transfer pricing determination, while less than 10 % is attributable to debt shifting activities.

Keywords: CFC Rules, Cadbury Schweppes Judgment, Tax Avoidance, Profit Shifting

JEL Classification: H26, H32, F23

Suggested Citation:

Schenkelberg, Sabine, The Cadbury Schweppes Judgment and Its Implications on Profit Shifting Activities within Europe (February 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3118076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,721
RANK
232,542
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies