Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Reporting and the International Allocation of Taxing Rights

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD), Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 16 Feb 2018

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: February 5, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, I discuss the OECD/BEPS country-by-country reporting requirements and the disconnect between country-by-country reporting data and current tax policy of the arm’s length principle of transfer pricing. I also discuss potential benefits of country-by-country data as well as potential costs, such as increased compliance costs, future controversy costs, and possible misinterpretations of the data. I end by considering what implications country-by-country reporting might have for the international allocation of taxing rights.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Policy, Tax Reporting, International Tax, Country-by-Country

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle, Country-by-Country Reporting and the International Allocation of Taxing Rights (February 5, 2018). International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The Effect of Pension Accounting on Corporate Pension Asset Allocation. Review of Accounting Studies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Aubry , T Dauphin
Opening the Vaults: The Use of Tax Havens by Europe's Biggest Banks Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010-12
Crossref
Z Bozanic , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , B M Williams
IRS Attention
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , p. 79 - 114 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,550
RANK
28,477
15 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies