Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Law and the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes

American Society of International Law Insights, Vol. 21, No. 13, November 2017

Posted: 16 Feb 2018 Last revised: 19 Feb 2018

Yurika Ishii

Sophia University, Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 13, 2017

Abstract

The first automatic exchanges of tax information took place in September 2017 and implementation will continue through 2018 based on Common Reporting Standards (CRS) among 102 countries and jurisdictions through the framework of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes (Forum).

The Forum is a self-standing body, founded in 2000 by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to accelerate information exchange between its member states and offshore financial centers (OFCs). OFCs are jurisdictions through which banks and other agents provide financial services to non-residents. Historically, OFCs have attracted foreign assets from developed states by lowering the tax rates and reducing transaction costs. Relying on banking secrecy laws that prohibits financial institutions from disclosing customer information to foreign authorities, OFCs are also used to mask the identity of beneficial owners. In the late 1990s, OECD started to tackle the harmful tax activities of OFCs. The creation of the Forum was a part of this project.

In 2009, OECD decided to restructure this organization to systematically strengthen the information exchange mechanism in response to the demands of the Group of Twenty (G20) member states, in particular the United States and European Union (EU) members, to secure their tax revenues after the global financial crisis. It encouraged OFCs to join the Forum, started to collaborate with other intergovernmental organizations, and adopted new rules for strengthened cooperation, as will be discussed below. This reorganization of the Forum and its standards regarding information exchange have raised a question of whether the Forum as an institution has changed the nature of international tax law practice. This Insight will provide a brief overview of the mechanisms of tax law cooperation, and then analyze the Forum’s unique structure, functions, and challenges.

Keywords: International Law, Tax Law, OECD, Global Forum

Suggested Citation:

Ishii, Yurika, International Law and the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes (November 13, 2017). American Society of International Law Insights, Vol. 21, No. 13, November 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3118746
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies