Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Ryan-Brady Tax Proposal Will Be Found to Be Inconsistent with WTO Law

Institute of International Economic Law Issue Brief (2017)

14 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2018

Jennifer Hillman

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

The tax-reform plan released by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady is intended to improve our corporate tax system by, among other things, taxing companies based on where they sell their goods, not where the business is located or where the goods are made. To do so, the ambitious reforms would set up a system in which corporations pay taxes on their U.S. sales revenues, with deductions permitted for the cost of input materials and labor, along with exclusions for the value of export sales.

Although policymakers rarely need to take the World Trade Organization (WTO) or its rules into account when devising tax policy, the proposal outlined in the Republican Blueprint for a cash flow tax does have significant WTO implications. While many proponents have said that plan is fully consistent with our WTO obligations, or at least that the WTO-consistency of the plan is “ambiguous,” that contention rests on a blurring of the distinction between taxes imposed on imports with rebates or exclusions for exports, combining the two under the overall notion of “border adjusted taxes” or BTAs. As this Issue Brief explains, as currently described, the Ryan-Brady taxes on imports are a clear violation of WTO rules while the rebates or exclusion from taxes for exports presents a murkier picture.

The speed with which WTO disciplines can be imposed also vary between imports and exports. Claims that the cash-flow tax’s application to imports violates the WTO would follow the traditional WTO dispute settlement rules, potentially taking two or more years for a decision on whether a violation has occurred, with significant additional time added on for compliance and possible further litigation over whether any changes the US might make in response to an adverse ruling bring about actual compliance. Disputes claiming that the exemption for exports from the sales revenue base violates the WTO rules on subsidies would, on the other hand, potentially be subject to the WTO’s expedited dispute process for claims involving prohibited export subsidies or relatively fast action by our trading partners to impose countervailing duties on US exports that cause injury to their domestic producers. As a result, any U.S. violations would likely generate several opportunities for relatively expeditious reprisals by other WTO member states.

Suggested Citation:

Hillman, Jennifer, Why the Ryan-Brady Tax Proposal Will Be Found to Be Inconsistent with WTO Law (March 1, 2017). Institute of International Economic Law Issue Brief (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3120019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Border Tax Adjustments and Corporate Tax Reform
PIIE forum Posted: 2017-02-01
US-Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) (EC) WT/DS108
China Brazil , Eu , Japan , New Korea , Zealand , Switzerland Norway , Taiwan
in challenging the EU's quota system on bananas. The challenge to China's export restrictions on raw and rare earth materials
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
849,077
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies