Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Big Data Analytics by the IRS: What Tax Practitioners Need to Know

Houser, Kimberly and Sanders, Debra, The Use of Big Data Analytics by the IRS: What Tax Practitioners Need to Know (February, 2018). Journal of Taxation, Vol. 128, No. 2, 2018. Thomas Reuters/Tax & Accounting.

16 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018 Last revised: 17 Oct 2018

Kimberly Houser

Ostrom Workshop on Data Management and Information Governance, Indiana University; Digital Democracy Lab, William & Mary Law School

Debra Sanders

Washington State University

Date Written: February 8, 2018

Abstract

With the budget reductions and losses in staff over the past several years, the IRS has been forced to do more with less. In turn, the IRS has turned to big data analytics make up for its loss of personal and the impact of the budget reductions. In 2011, the IRS created the Office of Compliance Analytics in order to create analytics programs that could identify potential refund fraud, detect taxpayer identity theft, and become more efficient in handling noncompliance issues. The IRS uses a wide range of analytic methods to mine public and commercial data including social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. The data collected from this mining is combined with IRS’s own proprietary information and analyzed using pattern recognition algorithms, which help to identify potential noncompliant taxpayers. The current ability to continuous monitor financial and personal behavior facilitates the building of exhaustive histories of individuals. Knowing that the IRS is utilizing public internet data from websites such as Facebook, taxpayers should consider that their posts could impact their probability of audit.

Keywords: big data, IRS, privacy, audit, predictive analytics, algorithms, tax

Suggested Citation:

Houser, Kimberly and Sanders, Debra, The Use of Big Data Analytics by the IRS: What Tax Practitioners Need to Know (February 8, 2018). Houser, Kimberly and Sanders, Debra, The Use of Big Data Analytics by the IRS: What Tax Practitioners Need to Know (February, 2018). Journal of Taxation, Vol. 128, No. 2, 2018. Thomas Reuters/Tax & Accounting. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3120741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Executive Office of the President, Big Data: Seizing Opportunities, Preserving Values Posted: 2014-05
See The Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. Section 552a , volume 42 Posted: 2000
U S C
Sections , volume 3501
Crossref
E G Huene
, p. 112 - 114 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,181
RANK
16,258
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies