Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequence of Land Finance: Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance

Management Science, forthcoming

Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 21-28

47 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2018 Last revised: 15 Sep 2021

Tao Chen

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Tan Youchao

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Jinghua Wang

Nanjing Audit University

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 10, 2018

Abstract

Using a large sample of unlisted industrial firms in China, we find that a decrease in local governments’ land transfer revenues leads to lower tax avoidance by firms within their jurisdiction. Our cross-sectional variation tests suggest that the tax-avoidance-reduction effect is stronger in cities with higher land finance dependence and government intervention, and where the political leaders have stronger promotion incentives. However, the effect is moderated for politically connected firms. Further analysis reveals that intensified tax enforcement is the mechanism through which land transfer revenue losses result in decreased tax avoidance. Our study offers novel evidence on a previously under-explored determinant of corporate tax avoidance through the lens of land finance.

Keywords: Land finance, Tax avoidance, Political incentives, Tax enforcement

JEL Classification: G38, M48, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tao and Youchao, Tan and Wang, Jinghua and Zeng, Cheng, The Unintended Consequence of Land Finance: Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance (October 10, 2018). Management Science, forthcoming, Nanyang Business School Research Paper No. 21-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3121588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Agarwal , Y Deng , C Luo , W Qian
The hidden peril: The role of the condo loan market in the recent financial crisis
Rev. Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 467 - 500 Posted: 2016
S Agarwal , W Qian , A Seru , J Zhang
Disguised corruption: Evidence from consumer credit in China
J. Financial Econom , volume 137 , issue 2 , p. 430 - 450 Posted: 2018
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
J. Financial Econom , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
M Ando , M Dahlberg , G Engström
The risks of nuclear disaster and its impact on housing prices
Econom. Lett , volume 154 , p. 13 - 16 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,623
RANK
154,405
8 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies