Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Platform End Users as Free 'Data Labor' - Re-Distributing the Value Created in Double Sided Markets

24 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2018 Last revised: 23 Mar 2018

Niron Hashai

Reichman University - Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliyah; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Date Written: February 9, 2018

Abstract

This paper develops the view that the end users (consumer) side of two-way platforms should be considered the free 'data labor' of digital platform firms, producing end products (personalized data) that is sold to the seller side of the platforms. We further argue that digital platform firms are currently monopsonies in their respective data labor markets, and show that such firms can grow infinitely large. Being a monopsony that can grow infinitely large allows digital platform firms to capture the vast majority of the value created in double sided markets. Yet, once digital platform firms will be required to compensate their data labor (end consumers) for the end products they create, a more even distribution of such value can be achieved. First, end users will also get part of the value created in two-way platforms through the compensation they get. Second, nation states will become capable to tax digital platform firms, by attributing the income of such firms to their expenses on data labor compensation, on a per country basis.

Keywords: Two-way platforms, data labor, value capture, tax avoidance, nation states versus multinational corporations

JEL Classification: D40, F23, J42, J48, H26

Suggested Citation:

Hashai, Niron, Platform End Users as Free 'Data Labor' - Re-Distributing the Value Created in Double Sided Markets (February 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3121160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R Speigler
Extracting interaction-created surplus
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 142 - 62 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Varian
Intermediate microeconomics: A modern approach Posted: 1987
H Varian
Online ad auctions
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 430 - 434 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Vernon
Sovereignty at bay: The multinational spread of U.S enterprises Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
RANK
614,410
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies