Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tools Used by Countries to Counteract Aggressive Tax Planning in Light of Transparency

Intertax 46(2), Kluwer Law International, ISSN: 0165-2826, 2018

Posted: 21 Feb 2018

Irma Johanna Mosquera Valderrama

Leiden University, Institute of Tax Law and Economics

Addy Mazz

Universidad de la República

Luis Eduardo Schoueri

University of São Paulo (USP)

Natalia Quiñones

Colombian Tax Institute

Craig West

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); University of Cape Town

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Frederik Zimmer

University of Oslo

Date Written: October 10, 2007

Abstract

The aim of this article is twofold. The first aim is to provide a comparative overview of the domestic anti-avoidance rules with specific reference to Brazil, Colombia, South Africa and Uruguay to evaluate the application of these rules to tackle aggressive tax planning. The second aim is to assess whether or not the application of general anti-avoidance rules (GAARs) in these countries is consistent and clear (transparent) for the taxpayer. The main argument is that to tackle aggressive tax planning, countries should have GAARs in accordance with the standard of fiscal transparency as developed in this article (i.e. availability, clarity, simplicity and reliability). Furthermore, the relationship between the taxpayer and tax administration should be enhanced considering mutual trust, legitimate expectations and respect for the taxpayers’ rights. This article provides recommendations to enhance the relationship between tax administration and taxpayers to facilitate a coordinated relationship. Such a coordinated relationship means, on the one hand, that the governments (tax administrations) are provided access to the information regarding the activities of the taxpayer; and, on the other hand, that taxpayers voluntarily disclose the structure and nature of the economic activities or businesses in the country.

Suggested Citation:

Mosquera Valderrama, Irma Johanna and Mazz, Addy and Schoueri, Luis Eduardo and Quiñones, Natalia and West, Craig and Pistone, Pasquale and Zimmer, Frederik, Tools Used by Countries to Counteract Aggressive Tax Planning in Light of Transparency (October 10, 2007). Intertax 46(2), Kluwer Law International, ISSN: 0165-2826, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3121552
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,679
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies