Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Relevance of Double Tax Treaties

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-05

29 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2018

Kunka Petkova

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Andrzej Stasio

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics

Martin Zagler

- Facoltà di Economia; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: February 18, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the eﬀects of double tax treaties (DTTs) on foreign direct investment (FDI) after controlling for their relevance in the presence of treaty shopping. DTTs cannot be considered a bilateral issue, but must be viewed as a network, since FDI can ﬂow from home to host country through one or more conduit countries. By accounting for treaty shopping, we calculate the shortest (i.e. the cheapest) tax distance between any two countries allowing the corporate income to be channelled through intermediate jurisdictions. We diﬀerentiate between relevant and neutral DTTs - i.e. tax treaties that oﬀer investors a ﬁnancial advantage - and irrelevant DTTs and use these data to derive two important results. First, only relevant and neutral tax treaties increase bilateral FDI, whereas irrelevant DTTs do not. We can quantify the increase of FDI due to a relevant DTT at around 22%. Second, signiﬁcant tax reductions due to treaty beneﬁts will lead to an increase in FDI.

Keywords: Double Tax Treaties, Treaty Shopping, Treaty Network, Foreign Direct Investment, Network Analysis

JEL Classification: F21, F23, F53, H25, H26, H73, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Petkova, Kunka and Stasio, Andrzej and Zagler, Martin, On the Relevance of Double Tax Treaties (February 18, 2018). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3126593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3126593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J E Anderson , Y Yotov
Terms of trade and global efficiency effects of free trade agreements
Journal of International Economics , volume 99 , p. 279 - 298 Posted: 1990
Crossref
S L Baier , J H Bergstrand
Do free trade agreements actually increase members' international trade?
Journal of International Economics , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 95 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P L Baker
An analysis of double taxation treaties and their effect on foreign direct investment
International Journal of the Economics of Business , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 377 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodeme
International taxation and multinational firm location decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , issue 11 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,474
RANK
126,595
5 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies