Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance, Ownership and Tax Aggressiveness on Earnings Management

Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 40 – 45 (2017)

6 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Nico Alexander

Trisakti School of Management

Silvy Christina

Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: December 21, 2017

Abstract

Objective –The purpose of this research is to empirically examine the effect of corporate governance, ownership and tax aggressiveness on earnings management.

Methodology/Technique –The population of this research consists of non-financial companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2013 and 2015. This research uses 3 recent years and utilizes different variable that have not been used in prior research. The 67 samples were choose using a purposive sampling method. The hypotheses are tested using multiple regression analysis with the SPSS program, to investigate the influence of each independent variable on earnings management.

Findings –The results show that the board of director have a positive influence on earnings management, while board independence, audit quality, managerial ownership, and tax aggressiveness have no influence on earnings management.

Novelty –This research add value in the existing literature and empirically study the effect of the board of directors, independence of the board, audit quality, managerial ownership, and tax aggressiveness on earnings management.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Earnings Management, Corporate Governance, Ownership, Tax Aggressiveness

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Nico and Christina, Silvy, The Effect of Corporate Governance, Ownership and Tax Aggressiveness on Earnings Management (December 21, 2017). Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 40 – 45 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Abdul Rahman , R , Ali , F H
Board, Audit Committee, Culture and Earnings Management
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
C E Campos , R E Newell , G Wilson
Corporate governance develops in emerging markets Posted: 2002
Welvin I Guna , Dan Arleen , Herawaty
Pengaruh Mekanisme Good Corporate Gorvenance, Independensi Auditor, Kualitas Audit, dan Faktor Lainnya terhadap Manajemen Laba
Jurnal Bisnis dan Akuntansi , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 68 Posted: 2010
Jayne Godfrey , Allan Hodgson , Ann Tarca , Jane Hamilton , Scott Holmes
Accounting Theory Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,804
RANK
120,023
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies