Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is There a Confidence Interval for That? A Critical Examination of Null Outcome Reporting in Accounting Research

Behavioral Research in Accounting (2022) 34(1):43-72.

62 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2018 Last revised: 28 Aug 2022

William M. Cready

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Jiapeng He

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Wenwei Lin

Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Chengdao Shao

Xiamen University

Di Wang

University of Texas at Dallas, Naveen Jindal School of Management, Students

Yang Zhang

University of Texas at Dallas, Naveen Jindal School of Management, Students

Date Written: January 19, 2022

Abstract

This study evaluates how accounting researchers analyze and report null outcomes based on a large sample examination of recent accounting research publications. As null outcomes reflect an inability to reject a null they, unlike rejections, do not lend themselves to specifically conclusive interpretations. Rather, drawing useful inference from them requires fundamental descriptive analysis. In the 35 articles we identify as presenting substantive null outcomes, however, inappropriately conclusive interpretations of these outcomes are widespread while scant attention is given to providing the descriptive analyses needed to draw useful insights from them. The analysis also proposes and illustrates the use of descriptive techniques in the form of confidence intervals as an appropriate approach for interpreting null outcomes.

Keywords: Null Hypothesis, Null Outcome, Confidence Interval

JEL Classification: B41, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cready, William M. and He, Jiapeng and Lin, Wenwei and Shao, Chengdao and Wang, Di and Zhang, Yang, Is There a Confidence Interval for That? A Critical Examination of Null Outcome Reporting in Accounting Research (January 19, 2022). Behavioral Research in Accounting (2022) 34(1):43-72., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3131251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3131251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
C Aberson
Interpreting null results: Improving presentation and conclusions with confidence intervals
Journal of Articles in Support of the Null Hypothesis , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 36 - 42 Posted: 2002
D G Altman , J M Bland
Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence
British Medical Journal , volume 311 , issue 7003 Posted: 1995
Longstanding mandate on corporate audit committees yields no benefit for investors, new research finds Posted: 2013
A Amrhein , S Greenland , B Mcshane
Scientists rise up against statistical significance
Nature , volume 567 , issue 7748 , p. 305 - 307 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
798
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,673
RANK
71,283
12 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies