Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Shifting Arrangements, Audit Specialization and Uncertain Tax Benefits: An Empirical Analysis of U.S. Multinational Firms

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2018

Grant Richardson

Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Date Written: March 6, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is twofold. First, it examines the association between income shifting arrangements consisting of transfer pricing aggressiveness, tax haven use and foreign tax rate differentials, and Financial Interpretation No. 48 (FIN48, now ASC740-10-25) unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs). Second, it analyzes the impact of audit specialization on the association between income shifting arrangements and UTBs. Using a dataset of 286 U.S. multinational firms over the 2007–2016 period (2,097 firm-years), our regression results show that income shifting arrangements represented by transfer pricing aggressiveness, tax haven use and foreign tax rate differentials are significantly positively associated with UTBs. We also observe that audit specialization magnifies the positive association between transfer pricing aggressiveness and UTBs, and foreign tax rate differentials and UTBs. Finally, in additional analysis we provide some evidence that the positive association between income shifting arrangements and UTBs is magnified in the post-2010 uncertain tax position (UTP) reporting requirement period. Overall, our study extends prior research on the topic of audit characteristics (i.e. audit specialization) and tax aggressiveness.

Keywords: Income Shifting Arrangements, Audit Specialization and Uncertain Tax Benefits

Suggested Citation:

Richardson, Grant and Taylor, Grantley and Al-Hadi, Ahmed, Income Shifting Arrangements, Audit Specialization and Uncertain Tax Benefits: An Empirical Analysis of U.S. Multinational Firms (March 6, 2018). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3135341
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,365
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies