Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Threshold: Smallness and the Value-Added Tax

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2018 Last revised: 21 Mar 2018

Emily A. Satterthwaite

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: March 16, 2018

Abstract

Three-quarters of the world’s population live in a country in which a value-added tax (VAT) is collected on sales of goods and services. The registration threshold determines which businesses—typically as measured by their annual revenues—remain exempt from the obligation to register for and collect VAT on their sales. Among VAT economists, there is broad consensus that setting thresholds higher rather than lower (such that more rather than fewer businesses are exempt) increases the economic efficiency of a VAT. Despite these high stakes and the longstanding expert consensus in favor of high thresholds, real-world thresholds vary widely and skew low, even within OECD and European countries. This article leverages the insights of the economic model to address an issue that lies outside of it but is central to lawyers and policymakers: fairness. Numerous studies show that smaller businesses’ costs of complying with the VAT are disproportionately higher than larger businesses. To the extent that lower-income entrepreneurs internalize those costs or pass them on to lower-income consumers, there is a vertical equity rationale for raising thresholds. Moreover, in the (typical) context in which small firms are more common than large firms, setting thresholds higher rather than lower—while also offering small suppliers an election to voluntarily register—can reduce the competitive unfairness of drawing an arbitrary bright line between firms above and below the threshold. Under these conditions, higher registration thresholds can improve both the fairness and the efficiency of a VAT.

Keywords: taxation, value-added tax, entrepreneurship, small business, elections

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Satterthwaite, Emily A., On the Threshold: Smallness and the Value-Added Tax (March 16, 2018). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3135076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
less well-off retailers and service providers, or enables their customers, likely amongst the poorer, a de facto exemption
See David Weisbach
An Efficiency Analysis of Line Drawing in the Tax Law
J. LEGAL STUD , volume 29 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2000
Ravi Kanbur & Michael Keen, Thresholds, Informality and Partitions of Compliance, 21 INT'L TAX & PUB. FIN Posted: 2014
Crossref
See Keen , &amp; Mintz
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,115
RANK
202,182
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies