Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
2017 Tax Competitiveness Report: The Calm Before the Storm

The School of Public Policy Publications, Vol. 11:7, February 2018

43 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018

Philip Bazel

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy

Jack Mintz

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Austin Thompson

University of Calgary - Finance

Date Written: February 22, 2018

Abstract

Canada stands to lose a major competitive edge unless it responds to the challenges of the 2018 U.S. tax reforms by instituting reforms of its own. At 20.9 per cent, Canada’s tax burden on new investment (measured by the marginal effective tax rate or METR), is competitive when compared to countries in the Americas and Asia-Oceania, and it’s the second lowest among the G7 countries. However, the rules of the game are about to change with U.S. tax reform. Among the reforms the U.S. is bringing in are a drop in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35 per cent to 21 per cent, a ten-year window for full and partial expensing machinery and equipment, and other various rules that will incent companies to push profits into the U.S. and interest and other expenses into foreign jurisdictions. The result of this and other reforms will be a sharp drop in the U.S. METR by almost half – from 34. 6 per cent to 18.8 per cent. This means Canada will have a higher tax burden on capital than the U.S. Put simply, Canada and other countries will face a drop in revenue while the U.S. gains revenue. Alarm bells should be ringing among public policy-makers in Canada and elsewhere, since research shows that taxes are a significant factor in multinationals’ decisions on where to invest globally and how to finance it. The dramatic U.S. reforms will put Canada at a distinct disadvantage, dragged down further by its small market size, energy levies and regulatory burden. This paper examines the corporate tax-rate situation in 92 countries, with many either having reduced their rates recently or are planning to in the next few years. In Canada, the only movement has been in several provinces, entailing a small increase in British Columbia and small decreases in Saskatchewan and Quebec. And while the average METR among OECD countries has dropped in the past few years, Canada’s in 2017 was approximately the same as it was in 2010, climbing upward from a nadir in 2012 on the backs of provincial corporate tax hikes. Reforms in the U.S. are going to make that country a much more attractive place for investment than Canada because of the new tax advantages. However, Canada doesn’t have to accept this diminished status. Federal and provincial governments can do a number of things to offset the U.S. reforms. Corporate tax rates should be reduced so as to achieve a more neutral corporate tax structure. By doing things like scaling back the small business deduction and accelerated depreciation, Canada can reduce its corporate tax rate to 23 per cent, which would be just a bit below the U.S.’s combined federal-state figure without losing revenue. Sales taxes on capital purchases could be eliminated in some provinces, reforms could be made to the taxation of international income and incentives for debt financing reduced. Carbon revenues could be used to provide an offset for higher energy taxes businesses face in Canada. The U.S.’s tax reforms are going to affect the economies of all 92 countries studied in this report. Global policy-makers will likely respond with lower corporate rates putting even more pressure on Canada to respond if it wishes to continue to attract investment and remain competitive.

Suggested Citation:

Bazel, Philip and Mintz, Jack and Thompson, Austin, 2017 Tax Competitiveness Report: The Calm Before the Storm (February 22, 2018). The School of Public Policy Publications, Vol. 11:7, February 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Australia Treasury , L Cao , A Hosking , M Kouparitsas , D Mullaly , X Rimmer , Q Shi , W Stark , S Wende
Understanding the Economy-Wide Efficiency and Incidence of Major Australian Taxes
Treasury Working Paper Posted: 2015-04
P Bazel , J Mintz
Tax Competitiveness Report: Canada is Losing its Attractiveness
SPP Research Papers , volume 9 , issue 37 Posted: 2015
S G Benzell , L J Kotlikoff , G Lagarda
Stimulating the Republican 'Unified Framework' Tax Plan Posted: 2017
T Buettner
Welfare Cost of the Real Estate Transfer Tax Posted: 2017
Load more
3 Citations
William B. P. Robson , Jeremy Kronick , Jacob Kim
Tooling Up: Canada Needs More Robust Capital Investment
C.D. Howe Institute 520 · 32 Pages · Posted: 8 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William B. P. Robson
Thin Capitalization: Weak Business Investment Undermines Canadian Workers
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 550, 2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bev Dahlby , Ergete Ferede , Mukesh Khanal
The Impact of Property Taxation on Business Investment in Alberta
The School of Public Policy Publications, Volume 14:8 March 2021 · 28 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2021 · Downloads: 119
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,832
RANK
284,192
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies