Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing & Zapping Marijuana: Blockchain Compliance in the Trump Administration Part 1

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-03

14 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2018 Last revised: 14 Sep 2018

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Brendan Magauran

Independent

Date Written: August 27, 2018

Abstract

On January 4, 2018, the Trump Administration through Attorney General Sessions rescinded an Obama-era policy1 that discouraged federal prosecutors from bringing charges in all but the most serious marijuana cases under the federal Controlled Substances Act,2 as well as under the Bank Secrecy Act.3 Federal law is at odds with state law in the majority of states on the legalization and subsequent state taxation of marijuana.4 Twenty-eight states and the District of Columbia have at least partially legalized marijuana. Eight of these states have legalized both medicinal and recreational use.5 With limited exceptions, legalized sales of marijuana are taxed.

We will consider this federal-state tax (and criminal enforcement) topic in a series of five papers. The first is introductory in nature. We examine the State tax and enforcement issues surrounding the legalized marijuana trade. Each of the other papers in this series will consider a specific marijuana fraud vector and present solutions to it.

Keywords: TAT STS Track and trace Seed to sale Front-end frauds Legalized marijuana Controlled Substances Act Bank Secrecy Act BSA CSA METRC Home grown marijuana

JEL Classification: K10, K19, K39

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson and Magauran, Brendan, Taxing & Zapping Marijuana: Blockchain Compliance in the Trump Administration Part 1 (August 27, 2018). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3141203 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3141203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Rifat Azam , Orly Mazur
Cloudy with a Chance of Taxation
22 Fla. Tax Rev. 500 (2019), SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 411 · 71 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 2 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 466
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,598
RANK
166,710
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies