Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Haven Utilization on the Implied Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from U.S. Multinational Firms

Journal of International Accounting Research, 2018 Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Mar 2018

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Grant Richardson

Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

Grantley Tayler Grant Richardson Ahmed Al-Hadi and Ivan Obaydin. Abstract: This study examines the effect of tax haven utilization on the implied cost of equity capital (ICOE) based on a sample of publicly-listed U.S. multinational firms over the 2006–2014 period. Our regression results show that tax haven utilization is significantly positively associated with the ICOE. In terms of economic significance, we find that, on average, a one-standard deviation increase in tax haven utilization leads to an increase in the ICOE for our sample firms by approximately 0.30% or 30 basis points. We also observe that our baseline regression results are robust to a number of endogeneity checks. In additional analysis, we find that high operating cash flows and independent director monitoring are likely to moderate the positive association between tax haven utilization and the ICOE, while high agency costs magnify this association. Overall, this study provides unique insights into the the effect of tax haven utilization on the ICOE.

Keywords: Tax havens, cost of equity

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Grantley and Richardson, Grant and Al-Hadi, Ahmed, The Effect of Tax Haven Utilization on the Implied Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from U.S. Multinational Firms (March 15, 2018). Journal of International Accounting Research, 2018 Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3141463
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,323
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies