Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is All Corporate Tax Planning Good for Shareholders?

52 UC Davis Law Review 2018 (Forthcoming)

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2018-20

69 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018 Last revised: 21 Mar 2018

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

Does corporate tax planning benefit shareholders? The prevalent assumption is that it does, because lower corporate tax burden translates to enhanced shareholder value. In this article, I explain why this common perception is sometimes incorrect in practice. In many cases, successful (and legal) corporate tax planning schemes are not Pareto-optimal: some shareholders may see a net benefit, while others experience a net loss. Moreover, in certain instances it is reasonable to expect that legal corporate tax planning will be Kaldor-Hicks inefficient. Meaning, the financial losses incurred by some shareholders exceed the gains to others. I identify a previously underappreciated agency problem, due to which shareholders usually approve detrimental corporate tax plans, even when information about the detriment is freely available. I also show that shareholders who benefit from corporate tax plans would, in some instances, rationally cooperate with managerial rent extraction, when such rent extraction defuses managerial opposition to the corporate tax-saving plan. The transactions I describe operate to shift the corporate tax burden from some shareholders to others, while enriching managers in the process. I discuss the legal and the normative implications of this phenomenon and explore several potential remedies.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Tax Avoidance, Corporate Governance, Agency Costs, Tax Exempt Investors, Gross Up, Fiduciary Duties, Economic Analysis of Law

JEL Classification: K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Is All Corporate Tax Planning Good for Shareholders? (March 15, 2018). 52 UC Davis Law Review 2018 (Forthcoming), UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2018-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3142145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Restatement , Principles , Corp , Governance , Intro
Note (Am. Law Inst Posted: 1994
Crossref
Restatement Of , Governance
Crossref
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,262
RANK
193,945
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies