Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Large is the Corporate Tax Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A General Equilibrium Approach

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6870

55 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2018

Maria Alvarez-Martinez

European Union - European Commission

Salvador Barrios

European Commission, JRC - IPTS

Diego d'Andria

Joint Research Center of the European Commission

Maria Gesualdo

Joint Research Centre - European Commission

Gaëtan Nicodème

Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) - Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management; CEPR and CESifo The views expressed in the article are those of the author and should not be attributed to the European Commission.

Jonathan Pycroft

European Union - European Commission

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 12, 2018

Abstract

This paper estimates the size and macroeconomic effects of base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) using a computable general equilibrium model designed for corporate taxation and multinationals. Our central estimate of the impact of BEPS on corporate tax losses for the EU amounts to €36 billion annually or 7.7% of total corporate tax revenues. The USA and Japan also appear to loose tax revenues respectively of €101 and €24 billion per year or 10.7% of corporate tax revenues in both cases. These estimates are consistent with gaps in bilateral multinationals' activities reported by creditor and debtor countries using official statistics for the EU. Our results suggest that by increasing the cost of capital, eliminating profit shifting would slightly reduce investment and GDP. It would however raise corporate tax revenues thanks to enhanced domestic production. This in turn could reduce other taxes and increase welfare.

Keywords: BEPS, corporate taxation, profit shifting, tax avoidance, CGE model

JEL Classification: C680, E620, H250, H260, H870

Suggested Citation:

Alvarez-Martinez, Maria and Barrios, Salvador and d'Andria, Diego and Gesualdo, Maria and Nicodeme, Gaetan and Pycroft, Jonathan, How Large is the Corporate Tax Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A General Equilibrium Approach (February 12, 2018). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6870, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3144296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3144296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
14 Citations
Demetrio Guzzardi , Elisa Palagi , Tommaso Faccio , Andrea Roventini
Financing Investment in Times of High Public Debt
, p. 169 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Thomas Tørsløv , Ludvig Wier , Gabriel Zucman
Externalities in International Tax Enforcement: Theory and Evidence
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 497 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Federico Sallusti
Measuring Profit Shifting Using “Resident” Information: The PSM-ROC Method
IMF Economic Review Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jana Tepperová , Jan Pavel , Marian Dobranschi , Veronika Solilová , Danuše Nerudová
Profit Shifting and Tax Base Erosion
, p. 45 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,786
RANK
407,466
14 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies