Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Firm Affiliation on Accountants’ Error Reporting Decisions: An Experimental Investigation

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Mar 2018 Last revised: 5 Apr 2023

Stephen Kuselias

Providence College

Christine E. Earley

Providence College -School of Business

Stephen Perreault

Providence College

Date Written: March 21, 2018

Abstract

Recent regulatory and professional developments have increased the frequency with which public accountants interact with professionals from other accounting firms. Archival findings in accounting indicate that when the same firm provides both audit and non-audit tax services, audit quality is better than when different firms provide these services, which is attributed to differential communication of audit knowledge, or a “knowledge spillover” effect that occurs between professionals from the same firm. However, empirical research that examines how information is communicated across engagement teams is limited. Using social identity theory, we predict that the communication decisions of accounting professionals could be biased when multiple firms perform accounting services and that this has potential negative implications for audit quality. We conduct an experiment in settings where professional services are split across different accounting engagement teams and find that both tax and audit professionals are more likely to disclose information about possible financial statement errors to auditors from their own firm compared to those from a rival firm. We also find that tax professionals are more willing to communicate errors to a client when another firm is responsible for the error compared to their own firm, but we do not observe this effect for auditors. We believe that these results have important implications for audit quality and provide new insights into the effects of inter-firm collaboration of accountant knowledge sharing.

Keywords: non-audit tax services, group audits, knowledge spillover, knowledge sharing, audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kuselias, Stephen and Earley, Christine E. and Perreault, Stephen, The Impact of Firm Affiliation on Accountants’ Error Reporting Decisions: An Experimental Investigation (March 21, 2018). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3145231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3145231
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies