Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning the Hard Way: Deciphering the Correct Tax Treatment of Graduate Education Benefits for University Faculty

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2017

79 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2018

Steven Z. Hodaszy

Robert Morris University

Gregory J. Krivacek

Robert Morris University

Date Written: March 6, 2018

Abstract

From time to time, and for a variety of reasons, universities grant their faculty members tuition reductions for graduate studies at their institutions. When this occurs, both the university that provides, and the faculty member who receives, the graduate tuition reduction struggle to determine the proper tax treatment of the benefit. Whether such a tuition reduction is includible in, or excludable from, the faculty member’s gross income is surprisingly confusing, given the complex maze of Internal Revenue Code provisions and Treasury regulations that potentially apply. In this Article, Professor Hodaszy and Professor Krivacek attempt to sort through the complexity and confusion. First, Hodaszy and Krivacek survey the applicable rules within sections 117, 127, and 132 of the Code. Next, they discuss how the IRS currently reads those rules to find faculty graduate tuition reductions includible in all but a few circumstances. Then, they explain how the IRS’s current view of the relationship among those provisions—specifically in the context of graduate tuition reductions—conflicts with express statutory language, relevant legislative history, and related interpretive regulations. In the course of this exposition, Hodaszy and Krivacek suggest a roadmap for challenging the IRS’s current position and for excluding the appropriate amount of any given faculty graduate tuition reduction.

Suggested Citation:

Hodaszy, Steven Z. and Krivacek, Gregory, Learning the Hard Way: Deciphering the Correct Tax Treatment of Graduate Education Benefits for University Faculty (March 6, 2018). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3145256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Id
)(ii), ex
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 162 - 167
T C M
, volume 79 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Id
, volume 570 , p. 538 - 577 Posted: 1979
Id
, volume 570 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies