Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Listen to Peter: Embrace the TBORs

Tax Notes, Vol. 87, No. 7, 2018

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-15

5 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2018 Last revised: 17 May 2018

Alice Abreu

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Richard Greenstein

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: April 4, 2018

Abstract

A TBOR is a Taxpayer Bill of Rights and 43 states, and the federal government all have one. Unfortunately, most practitioners either don’t know that TBORs exist, or, if they do, they think TBORs are of little, if any, practical importance—toothless tonics designed to make taxpayers feel better about the unpleasantness of paying taxes but offering no enforceable rights. Nevertheless, as no less an authority than Peter Faber urged in an “In the Trenches” article published in State Tax Notes on September 4, 2017, for tax advisors to ignore the “more general taxpayer protection rules of the sort that are embodied in bill of rights legislation . . . [is] a mistake. There are times when these rules may be helpful in controversy situations.”

We think that not only is Peter correct, but that TBORs can do even more. TBORs can transform both tax practice and the relationship between taxpayers and taxing authorities, and their provisions can be enforced by courts even in the absence of legislative language providing for such enforcement. There are at least three arguments in support of that proposition, and we developed them in a Special Report we wrote on the Federal TBOR, and recently published in Tax Notes: Embracing the TBOR. We think each of those arguments could also be made with respect to state TBORs.

As we explain in that Article, the first argument is that construing the codification of the TBOR as a meaningless gesture ignores the well-established canon of statutory construction against surplusage. The second is that the TBOR significantly enhances the taxpayer’s normative basis for demanding legal remedies for violations of taxpayer rights because it invokes procedural justice, using the language of rights where only government duties existed before. And the third is that the TBOR may have actually created taxpayer rights.

Our Article on the Federal TBOR does not argue that all taxpayer rights should be enforced either all the time or to the same extent, as that could be disruptive or even catastrophic for tax administration and may not be necessary to fulfill the objectives of the TBOR. But it does maintain that the adoption and particularly the codification of the TBOR can transform the legal environment so that demands for enforcement can be weighed by the courts on a case by case basis, in light of all the facts and circumstances, which include the identity and attributes of the taxpayer. Language in many of the state TBORs to the effect that failure to comply with the provisions of the TBOR will not invalidate particular government actions should not preclude redress that takes other forms.

Keywords: state, Department of Revenue, and New York State, Tax, Taxpayer Rights, Bill of Rights, Taxpayer Bill of Rights, TBOR, Nina Olson, Performative, Expressive Function, Normative Basis for Enforcement, Rights, Facebook Litigation, Rights

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Abreu, Alice and Greenstein, Richard, Listen to Peter: Embrace the TBORs (April 4, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 87, No. 7, 2018, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3156618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
798
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies