Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance, Debt Ratio, and Corporate Governance: Evidence from Japan

35 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2018

Hiroshi Onuma

Tokyo University of Science

Keikichi Kato

Hirosaki University

Date Written: April 11, 2018

Abstract

This study examines whether tax avoidance is associated with corporate debt policy. Specifically, this study investigates the influence of bond investors and financial institutions such as the banks, which are long-term loan owners, on corporate governance (CG) to determine comprehensively the relationship between tax avoidance and debt ratio. Note that, the financial institutions in Japan have a larger role in indirect finance policies, relative to in the European and U.S. financial markets, and that the financial institutions of the other Asian nations seem to take on the same level of responsibility as those of Japan.

This study firstly investigates the association between debt ratio and corporate tax avoidance. Secondly, we examine the influence of effectiveness of debt governance on debt ratio and CG. Thirdly, we focus on the representative tools, such as outside directors and auditors for CG and corporate tax avoidance. Finally, we test the influence of the main banks on this effect because, in addition to their monitoring role, main banks also play a significant advisory role and are thus likely to be in a better position to make superior decisions about a firm's optimal debt and capital structure mix.

According to the main result of this study, it seems that the debt enhancement effect is more dominant than the debt substitution effect in Japanese firms. When tax avoidance increases, firms’ profitability rise. Thus, considering the ability to afford a loan from a financial institution, the firms can borrow more. With regard to interactive effects among CG, debt policy, and tax avoidance, we find the CG of firms strengthens when they carry out tax avoidance. If the outside director ratio increases, then the monitoring function of the debtholders improves due to the enhancement of CG functions, and our result suggests that the financial institutions in Japan achieve an effective monitoring function.

Keywords: debt ratio, tax avoidance, debt substitution effect, debt enhancement effect, outside directors’ ratio, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Onuma, Hiroshi and Kato, Keikichi, Corporate Tax Avoidance, Debt Ratio, and Corporate Governance: Evidence from Japan (April 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3161179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-Family Ownership and Firm Performance
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
C T Bathala , K P Moon , R P Rao
Managerial Ownership, Debt Policy, and the Impact of Institutional Holdings: An Agency Perspective
Financial Management , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 38 - 50 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Bradley , G A Jarell , Han Kim , E
On the existence of an optimal capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 857 - 878 Posted: 1984
Crossref
K H Chan , P L L Mo , A Y Mou
Government ownership, corporate governance and tax aggressiveness: evidence from China
Accounting and Finance , volume 53 , p. 1029 - 1051 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,938
RANK
254,521
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies