Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Mechanisms to Get Good Access to Beneficial Ownership Information in International Context

2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies

78 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2018

Jeffrey P. Owens

Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Rick McDonell

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

International initiatives to enhance tax compliance and reduce the extent and impact of illicit financial flows have now been ongoing for over two decades, led primarily by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes (Global Forum), the European Union (EU), the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and the World Bank.

Increasingly, the various forums, bodies, panels, and countries involved in developing policy responses to the issue of illicit financial flows are recognising that there are synergies between these regimes and initiatives that, if harnessed properly, can multiply the effectiveness of current individual approaches. For instance, while the stated purpose of the FATF Standards on transparency and beneficial ownership is to prevent the misuse of corporate vehicles for money laundering or terrorist financing, the implementation of these Standards supports efforts to prevent and detect other predicate offences such as tax crimes and corruption, while reinforcing jurisdictions’ capacity to meet their legal obligations arising from related international standards such as the UNCAC, the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, the OECD Convention on Combating the Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, and the Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information.

Common to many of these regimes and standards is the shared recognition that the identification of the ultimate beneficial owners of accounts and of corporations is crucial to detecting, tracking, and preventing illicit financial flows, by enabling authorities to more effectively and efficiently “follow the money”. The aim of this paper is to provide the necessary contextual information around beneficial ownership, and its place in the broader transparency agenda, in order to enhance understanding amongst stakeholders of what is meant by the concept and what its effective implementation requires. Part I sets out a broad overview of current and historical developments in the financial transparency agenda. Part II provides an outline of the relevant international frameworks that prescribe the collection, verification, and disclosure requirements for beneficial ownership information (being, primarily, the AML/CFT FATF Standards and the bilateral/multilateral mechanisms for exchange of information for tax purposes). Part III discusses the benefits of, and barriers to, effective collection, disclosure and exchange of beneficial ownership information, and outlines practical steps that can be taken to enable and/or reinforce verification systems. Part IV establishes an overview of recent international developments on the concept of beneficial ownership. It presents a factual description of the initiatives taken by the OECD, the Global Forum, the FATF, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, World Bank, UNODC, Transparency International and Tax Justice Networks. Part V seeks to provide some useful practical-oriented recommendations on short- to medium-term actions that could be taken in these types of capacity-constrained environments to improve transparency and enhance the effectiveness of current tools and practices for combatting illicit financial flows.

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Jeffrey P. and McDonell, Rick, Creating Mechanisms to Get Good Access to Beneficial Ownership Information in International Context (February 21, 2018). 2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3161723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
See Easson , A Zolt , E M
Tax Incentives
Council at Ministerial Level , p. 21 - 22 Posted: 2006-05
Crossref
Harmful Tax Competition: An Emerging Global Issue Posted: 1998
) imposing no, or only nominal application of the term 'tax haven' remains controversial and contested. It is often conflated with the term 'offshore financial centre'-itself an equally amorphous term that, from the perspective of land-locked 'onshore' jurisdictions such as Switzerland and Lichtenstein, usefully glosses over the fact that everywhere is 'offshore' of everywhere else. Accordingly, hereafter this paper adopts the Tax Justice Network's preferred terminology of 'secrecy jurisdiction', where the more pertinent distinction is one between 'here' and 'elsewhere'. 5 'Preferential tax regimes' are characterised in the OECD Posted: 1998
Load more
2 Citations
Stuart S. Yeh
The Anticorruption Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Corruption Beneficial Owner Rule
Laws , volume 12 , issue 6 , p. 86 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Umut Turksen , Adam Abukari
OECD’s global principles and EU’s tax crime measures
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 406 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,577
RANK
239,334
2 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies