Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayers Income, Taxpayers Attributes and Personal Income Tax Compliance

African Journal of Management Sciences, 1(1), 95-111 (2015)

14 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2018

Emmanuel Eragbhe

University of Benin, Department of Accounting

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin

Date Written: May 10, 2015

Abstract

The focus of this study is to investigate taxpayers’ income, taxpayers’ attributes and how these affects their level of tax compliance in Nigeria. The study adopted a survey research design in which copies of questionnaires were distributed to self-employed respondents. The data gathered were analysed descriptively while the hypotheses were tested using the Ordinary Least Square technique. The analysis and testing were done electronically using the SPSS 20 software. Findings from the study show that taxpayers’ gender significantly affect the level of compliance; taxpayers’ attitude also significantly affect their personal income tax compliance; taxpayers’ income has a significant impact on the relationship between taxpayers attributes & their tax compliance; and the perception of taxpayers has no significant impact on their personal income tax compliance. In summary, the study concludes that social/psychological aspects of taxpayers are significantly affected by the level of their income and this also affects their tax compliance level. Based on these, the study recommends that since the attitude and gender of taxpayers fundamentally affect their tax compliance level, tax administrators can shape these positively by using education, enlightenment programmes, and carrying out value for money audit on taxes collected.

Keywords: Taxpayers income, Taxpayers gender, Taxpayer attributes, Tax compliance

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Eragbhe, Emmanuel and Aronmwan, Edosa, Taxpayers Income, Taxpayers Attributes and Personal Income Tax Compliance (May 10, 2015). African Journal of Management Sciences, 1(1), 95-111 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R G Ahangar , H K Bandpey , H A Rokny
An investigation into the determinant of effective factors on tax evasion (Empirical study of Iran Tax Affairs Organization) Posted: 2011
American Journal of Scientific Research , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 113
Crossref
I R Akintoye , G A Tashie
The effect of tax compliance on economic growth and development in Nigeria, West Africa
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 222 - 231 Posted: 2013
J O Alabede
Improving efficiency of tax administration for effective revenue generation in democratic Nigeria
SBS national conference Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,455
RANK
342,603
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies