Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preventing Tax Treaty Abuse – a Toolbox with Preventive Measures for Ghana, South Africa, and Nigeria

2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies

45 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2018

Sathi Meyer-Nandi

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

Traditionally, an extensive double tax treaty (DTT) network was considered to be an important tool for a developing country to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) and a signal for its willingness to impose taxes on foreign investors according to international accepted taxation norms. A broad network of DTTs was perceived as a sincere manifestation of a country’s desire for economic development, greater integration into the global economy, and a confirmation to provide a predictable legal framework. However, recently, evidence appeared that signing DTTs does not necessarily result in greater FDI and may even increase revenue losses, which is particularly detrimental to developing countries.

The topic of abusive use of tax treaties and the negative repercussions on the tax base of developing countries has received extensive attention from international organizations, policymakers, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). For instance, the IMF started to advice developing countries to “sign tax treaties with considerable caution” as a treaty with one country can effectively constitute a treaty with the rest of the world. Also, the OECD has developed guidance in its work on tax treaty abuse devoted to “make it easier for countries to justify their decision not to enter into tax treaties with certain low or no-tax jurisdictions” or to decide on whether to modify (or, ultimately, terminate) a treaty that was previously concluded.

Against this background, the aim of this paper is to develop a policy against tax treaty abuse for Ghana, Nigeria, and South Africa (hereafter together referred to as “the Focus Countries”). This will be accomplished through first examining different possible anti-avoidance mechanisms and then reviewing the applicable framework of the Focus Countries in order to identify opportunities for improvement. All three Focus Countries have a treaty network established, however, with different global coverage. Accordingly, all of the Focus Countries have already a practice in place for negotiating tax treaties with other developing and developed countries and Ghana and Nigeria may even be eager to expand their existing but, thus far, still limited tax treaty network.

Accordingly, the paper analyses different anti-avoidance mechanisms together with the applicable country practice to ultimately provide recommendations on policy improvement. The anti-avoidance mechanisms covered include (a) tax treaty policy for entering into a DTT or reviewing existing ones; (b) withholding taxes as a simple anti-tax-avoidance mechanism; (c) termination of a tax treaty; (d) tax treaty override; (e) beneficial ownership provisions; (f) BEPS recommendations on preventing treaty abuse; and, (g) a SAAR on indirect transfers of a property rich company.

Suggested Citation:

Meyer-Nandi, Sathi, Preventing Tax Treaty Abuse – a Toolbox with Preventive Measures for Ghana, South Africa, and Nigeria (February 21, 2018). 2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3161714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Marais
The Risk for Tax Treaty Override in Africa -A Comparative Legal Analysis
Journals IBFD. Available under , volume 11 Posted: 2014
available at www.thesait.org.za/news/142092/Double-Taxation-Agreement-Between-South-Africa-And-Mauritius.htm 67 ZA: Supreme Court of Appeal
See the recent renegotiation of the tax treaty with Mauritius in for instance N. Church, Double Taxation Agreement between South Africa and Mauritius , volume 6 Posted: 2003-03-26
A W Oguttu , ; Xlii Cilsa
Resolving the conflict between "controlled foreign company" legislation and tax treaties: a South African perspective Posted: 2009
A Marais
The Risk for Tax Treaty Override in Africa -A Comparative Legal Analysis
Journals IBFD 70 Ibid. 71 NG: Constitution , volume 11 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,095
RANK
325,828
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies