Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Shifting and Investment Effects: The Implications of Zero-Taxable Profits

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6895

44 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2018

Marko Köthenbürger

ETH Zurich - Department of Management, Technology and Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Michael Stimmelmayr

University of Bath - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

Recent empirical research documents a tendency of affiliates of multinational enterprises to bunch around zero reported profit. Setting up a model that allows for profitable and loss-making affiliates of multinationals, we show that profit shifting to a low-tax country as well as a loss-related, inverted-type of transfer pricing from the low-tax to the high-tax country induces bunching. Such bunching promotes investment incentives in the low-tax as well as the high-tax country. In equilibrium, affiliates might over-invest and the bunching-related investment effects generate a tendency for too high profit taxes in equilibrium. The finding contrasts existing literature where transfer pricing incentives are insulated from investment incentives and transfer pricing induces inefficiently low taxes.

Keywords: tax competition, profit shifting, corporate losses, bunching, investment

JEL Classification: H250, D210, H870

Suggested Citation:

Köthenbürger, Marko and Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed and Stimmelmayr, Michael, Profit Shifting and Investment Effects: The Implications of Zero-Taxable Profits (February 21, 2018). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6895, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164057 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3164057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach , M Cooper , M Knittel
Understanding U.S. Corporate Tax Losses, Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 23 , p. 73 - 122 Posted: 2009
A J Auerbach , J Poterba
The Effects of Taxation on Capital Accumulation, M. Feldstein , p. 305 - 342 Posted: 1987
Crossref
J Becker , N Riedel
Cross-border Tax Effects on Affiliate InvestmentEvidence from European Multinationals , volume 56 , p. 436 - 450 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Cooper , M Knittel
Partial Loss Refundability: How are Corporate Tax Losses Used?
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , p. 651 - 663 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,410
RANK
454,090
5 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies