Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Book-Tax Differences Mispriced?

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 5 May 2018 Last revised: 22 Aug 2022

Bradford Hepfer

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

I examine whether book-tax differences (BTDs) are mispriced. I predict that BTD mispricing is the operating cash flows-to-price (CFO/P) anomaly in disguise. Using both time-series asset pricing tests and cross-sectional returns tests, I provide consistent evidence that returns to trading on BTDs are explained by CFO/P. Rather than being an independent anomaly, the findings indicate that any evidence of BTD mispricing is subsumed by the broader CFO/P anomaly. These findings stand in contrast to many studies that infer BTDs possess unique information for future earnings reflected in stock prices with a delay.

Keywords: book-tax differences; operating cash flows-to-price; mispricing; accrual anomaly; growth anomaly

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hepfer, Bradford, Are Book-Tax Differences Mispriced? (August 1, 2022). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Accounting for Income Taxes. Opinions of the Accounting Principles Board No. 11 Posted: 1967
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of booktax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
R Ball , J Gerakos , J T Linnainmaa , V Nikolaev
Investment performance of common stocks in relation to their price-earnings ratio: A test of the efficient market hypothesis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 1 , p. 663 - 682 Posted: 1977
S Basu
The relationship between earnings' yield, market value and return for NYSE common stocks: Further evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 156 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,301
RANK
198,294
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies