Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing Tax Transparency: Investor Reactions to the Country-by-Country Reporting Requirement for EU Financial Institutions

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 18-019

37 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2018

Verena K. Dutt

Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Christopher Ludwig

University of Mannheim; ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Katharina Nicolay

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Heiko Vay

University of Mannheim

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We employ an event study methodology to investigate the stock price reaction around the day of the political decision to include a country-by-country reporting obligation for EU financial institutions. We do not find significant abnormal returns for the banks affected. Sample splits according to the effective tax rate and the degree of B2C orientation do not reveal a more pronounced negative investor response for banks engaging more strongly in tax avoidance or being potentially more concerned about reputational risks, respectively. We conclude that the implementation of a CbCR requirement for EU financial institutions did not trigger a noticeable investor response. Contrary prior findings regarding other public tax disclosure obligations might be driven by the distinct motivation of the rules and the way the information is presented. We contend that capital market reactions to an upcoming increase in tax transparency are not generalizable to other industries and settings, but that consideration must be given to the context and the exact design of the rule.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Profit Shifting, Country-by-Country Reporting, Financial Institutions, Market Reaction

JEL Classification: H25, H26, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Dutt, Verena Katharina and Ludwig, Christopher and Nicolay, Katharina and Vay, Heiko and Voget, Johannes, Increasing Tax Transparency: Investor Reactions to the Country-by-Country Reporting Requirement for EU Financial Institutions (2018). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 18-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J L Abernathy , S A Davenport , E T Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock price reaction and economic consequences
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Z Bozanic , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , B M Williams
IRS attention
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 114 Posted: 2017
Crossref
B Bratten , C A Gleason , S A Larocque , L F Mills
Forecasting taxes: New evidence from analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
23 Citations
Richard Murphy , Petr Janský , Atul Shah
BEPS Policy Failure—The Case of EU Country-By-Country Reporting1
Nordic Tax Journal , volume 2019 , issue 1 , p. 63 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Preetika Joshi , Edmund Outslay , Anh Persson , Terry Shevlin , Aruhn Venkat
Does Public Country‐by‐Country Reporting Deter Tax Avoidance and Income Shifting? Evidence from the European Banking Industry*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 2357 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Michael Overesch , Hubertus Wolff
Financial Transparency to the Rescue: Effects of Country-by-Country Reporting in the EU Banking Sector on Tax Avoidance
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2017
Crossref
Preetika Joshi , Edmund Outslay , Anh Persson
Does Public Country-by-Country Reporting Deter Tax Avoidance and Income Shifting? Evidence from the European Banking Industry
47 Pages · Posted: 6 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,329
RANK
270,901
23 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies