Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Treaty Implications of the Remuneration as Royalties of Intellectual Property and Intangibles

European Business Law Review, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018

Carlo Garbarino

Bocconi University - Department of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 19, 2018

Abstract

The transfer of intellectual property from a higher-tax country where R&D takes place to a lower-tax country facilitates the phenomenon denominated “base erosion and profit shifting” (BEPS) and this generates a flow of the remuneration of intangibles from high-tax countries to low-tax countries. These remunerations are defined as “royalties”, but they can assume different legal forms and denomination. These cross-border flows of royalties are regulated by a host of bilateral tax treaties between OECD and non-OECD countries amounting in total to more than three thousands. These treaties generally follow the OECD Model, but also a UN Model exist, while certain countries, such as the U.S. adopt their own model (which does not differ dramatically from the OECD Model). In this Article the provisions of the OECD Model are used as a proxy for the provisions of the numerous existing treaties. The paper analyzes payments that are not royalties, but business profits in so far they are generated in business-to-business transaction, as well the characterization of payments for know-how in different areas. Attention is also devoted to payments for computer software, by looking at the software-related payments that are royalties because they imply the use of the intangibles, but also at the software-related payments that are business profits because the underlying contractual configuration. Finally the paper focuses on payments for mixed contracts which may have an hybrid legal and tax characterization.

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, The Tax Treaty Implications of the Remuneration as Royalties of Intellectual Property and Intangibles (March 19, 2018). European Business Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3166150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3166150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
See for example: IFA, Tax Treatment of Computer Software 73a Cahiers Droit Fisc
Intl Posted: 1988
J Hugh , Ault
The 1992 OECD Model Treaty: Treatment of Computer Software 33 Eur Posted: 1993
Fred De Hosson
Taxation of Cross-Border Software Payments 20 intertax Posted: 1992
Alejandro Garcia Heredia
Software Royalties in Tax Treaties: Should Copyright Rights Be Reconsidered in the OECD Commentary on Article , volume 12 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,659
RANK
264,566
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies