Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealth Tax Add-Ons: An Alternative to Comprehensive Wealth Taxes

158(12) Tax Notes 1613 (March 19, 2018)

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 18-03

16 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2018

Jason Oh

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Eric M. Zolt

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: April 23, 2018

Abstract

Comprehensive wealth taxes offer the possibility of reducing inequality while raising revenue. However, implementing comprehensive wealth taxes can be difficult, especially in emerging economies where administrative and political limitations are often substantial. This Article offers an alternative set of instruments – wealth tax add-ons – that countries can use to achieve many of the goals of a comprehensive wealth tax. Rather than trying to tax all wealth with a new tax instrument, add-ons would target and tax particular forms of wealth and be attached to existing tax systems. This Article focuses on three different types of add-ons: (1) a surtax on real property for the property tax system, (2) a minimum tax for closely-held businesses for the corporate tax system, and (3) a Netherlands-style presumptive tax for financial assets for the personal income tax system. Add-ons can improve the taxation of disparate forms of wealth in ways that are difficult to incorporate into a single instrument. For example, we argue that wealth in the form of closely-held businesses is best taxed at the entity level to avoid the problems of attribution and valuing minority interests – challenges that would face any comprehensive wealth tax applied at the individual level.

This Article presents an analytical framework for how particular countries might pick and tailor these wealth tax add-ons. The starting point is to collect data to understand the distribution of wealth in the country, the composition of wealth (the relative importance of different types of assets), and how the composition of wealth changes across the wealth distribution. This information will influence the design of the add-ons (especially the threshold for taxation and the rate) and the relative attractiveness of these instruments. Because taxing only certain forms of wealth entails some costs, the add-ons together should cover a substantial portion of the wealth tax base. Countries should make these determinations in the context of existing tax systems, and, in particular, how well a country’s existing systems tax income from capital.

Keywords: Comprehensive wealth taxes, wealth tax add-ons, distribution of wealth, wealth tax bases, tax systems, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Jason and Zolt, Eric M., Wealth Tax Add-Ons: An Alternative to Comprehensive Wealth Taxes (April 23, 2018). 158(12) Tax Notes 1613 (March 19, 2018), UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 18-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3167483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,256
RANK
181,909
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies