Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judging the New International Tax Regime: Testimony Before the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance

15 Pages Posted: 4 May 2018

Rebecca M. Kysar

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: April 24, 2018

Abstract

The 2017 tax law made significant changes to the way the United States taxes multinational corporations on their cross-border income. The new legislation has, however, failed to solve old problems in the international system and also opened the door to new ones.The serious problems created, or left unaddressed, by the new regime, include the following: (1) The new international rules aimed at intangible income incentivize offshoring and largely preserve the profit shifting problem; (2) the new patent box regime will likely not increase innovation, causes WTO problems, and can be easily gamed; (3) the new inbound rules have too generous thresholds and can be readily circumvented; and (4) the new regime falls short of true international tax reform. This is the author's written testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance, at an April 24, 2018 hearing on the recent tax legislation.

Keywords: tax, international tax, tax reform, TCJA

JEL Classification: K34, K20

Suggested Citation:

Kysar, Rebecca M., Judging the New International Tax Regime: Testimony Before the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance (April 24, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3171849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
See Manoj Viswanathan
discussing equity concerns of income-based cliff effects). See also Lily L. Batchelder et al., Effficiency and Tax Incentives: The Case for Refundable Tax Credits, 59 STAN
The Hidden Costs of Cliff Effects in the Internal Revenue Code, 164 U. PA. L. REV. 931 , volume 23 , p. 30 - 31 Posted: 2006
See Viswanathan, supra note 35 , p. 958 - 59
Supra Shaviro , Note
There is a question as to whether Congress intended such royalties to escape BEAT. One government official has indicated that this was not the intent of Congress and that the outcome may be changed through a technical correction
Selective Analysis: The Beat Posted: 2018-04-10
Load more
1 Citations
Caroline Bruckner , Thomas L. Hungerford
Failure to Contribute: An Estimate of the Consequences of Non-and Underpayment of Self-Employment Taxes by Independent Contractors, and On-Demand Workers on Social Security
47 Pages · Posted: 6 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,003
RANK
381,120
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies