Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Elusive Definition of Corporate Tax Residence

St. Louis University Law Journal, Vol. 62, p. 219, 2017

18 Pages Posted: 14 May 2018

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: December 1, 2017

Abstract

Although the literature has extensively discussed the issue of corporation residence, it has paid little attention to the terms of reference of the debate. A typical argument will take the following form: the law should adopt Definition D as appropriate because it closely conforms to Principle P. However, such an argument is unpersuasive unless it also provides a convincing explanation for why P is the appropriate principle. Without such an explanation, the fact that D closely conforms to P is a brute fact with no normative value. Nonetheless, the literature generally ignores this first, crucial step. In most cases, it examines tests of corporate residence without a cogent justification for the principles by which it evaluates those tests.

This Article will attempt to move the discourse to a more theoretical level by focusing attention not on the definitions themselves but rather on the criteria upon which commentators rely, either explicitly or implicitly, when considering the merits of particular definitions of corporate residence.

A survey of the literature reveals four criteria for evaluating tests of corporate residence. Part I considers the three most commonly relied upon criteria: manipulability, clarity, and benefit. It argues that all three are bereft of relevant normative content. Consequently, the fact that a particular test conforms to one or more of these criteria does not constitute adequate grounds for its adoption.

The fourth criterion, and the newest member of the pantheon, is purposiveness. As opposed to the more traditional criteria, purposiveness does have normative value: a demonstration that a proposed test conforms to this criterion would constitute a reasonable argument in support of that test. Part II describes this criterion and explores whether it is possible to formulate a test that conforms to it. The answer is that it does not appear possible to do so.

The fact that no test appears capable of satisfying the demands of the only criterion with normative value suggests that the quest for an appropriate definition of corporate residence may be a futile endeavor. The Conclusion summarizes the findings and offer some speculation as to why an acceptable definition of corporate residence is so elusive.

Keywords: tax, taxation, international, international taxation, corporation, corporate taxation, residence, corporate residence, place of incorporation, control, management, control and management, central management and control

JEL Classification: F38, K34, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, The Elusive Definition of Corporate Tax Residence (December 1, 2017). St. Louis University Law Journal, Vol. 62, p. 219, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Omri Marian
The Function of Corporate Tax-Residence in Territorial Systems , volume 18
L Rev
Furthermore, in today's digital world convening at one physical location is no longer necessary. Oleksandr Pastukhov, International Taxation of Income Derived from Electronic Commerce: Current Problems and Possible Solutions, 12 B.U
J. SCI. & TECH. L , volume 157 Posted: 2006
Julie Roin
Can the Income Tax Be Saved?: The Promise and Pitfalls of Unitary Formulary Apportionment
U of Chicago, Public Law Working Paper No. 170 Pages: 49 Posted: 4 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
Tax Convergence and Globalization
U of Michigan Law & Econ, Empirical Legal Studies Center Paper No. 10-019, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 214 Pages: 7 Posted: 8 Jul 2010 Last revised: 10 Oct 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
772,528
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies