Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Investment of US Multinationals: The Effect of Tax Policy and Agency Conflicts

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 10 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Jun 2021

James F. Albertus

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Brent Glover

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Oliver Levine

University of Wisconsin - Madison - Department of Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2024

Abstract

We estimate a dynamic model, featuring agency conflicts and a stochastic tax reform arrival, to evaluate how the change from a worldwide to territorial tax system, enacted under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), affects foreign investment. Although a worldwide system imposes a higher tax liability on foreign income, we show it encourages excess foreign investment by depressing the opportunity cost of capital. In our estimated model, the TCJA reduces foreign investment by 15.6% on average, with larger declines for services firms and firms with lesser agency conflicts. The reform probability, which we estimate in the model, significantly affects firms' investment and cash holdings.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), foreign direct investment (FDI), policy uncertainty, dynamic corporate finance, multinational corporations, structural estimation, corporate investment, taxation, agency conflicts, corporate cash holdings

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G35, F23, H25

Suggested Citation:

Albertus, James F. and Glover, Brent and Levine, Oliver, Foreign Investment of US Multinationals: The Effect of Tax Policy and Agency Conflicts (July 1, 2024). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3172468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3172468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
G Chemla , C A Hennessy
Rational expectations and the paradox of policy-relevant natural experiments
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 114 , p. 368 - 381 Posted: 2019
Crossref
L De Simone , J D Piotroski , R E Tomy
Repatriation taxes and foreign cash holdings: the impact of anticipated tax reform
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 32 , p. 3105 - 3143 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J.-P Decamps , S Gryglewicz , E Morellec , S Villeneuve
Corporate policies with permanent and transitory shocks. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , p. 162 - 210 Posted: 2016
M A Desai , J R Hines
Expectations and expatriations: tracing the causes and consequences of corporate inversions
National Tax Journal , volume 55 , p. 409 - 440 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,368
RANK
67,801
12 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies