Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Tax-Motivated Wash Gain Sales Pass Economic Muster?

Posted: 19 May 2018

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: May 5, 2018

Abstract

For nearly a century, the Code has disallowed wash losses, which are losses from the sale of a share of stock or other security for which the taxpayer within 30 days before or after the sale repurchases the asset. In contrast, the Code does not forbid wash gains. Taking advantage of this, many textbooks, academics, practitioners, and business journalists recommend that taxpayers pursue a wash gain strategy, including even repurchasing immediately. These authors suggest two settings in which the wash gain saves the seller taxes. The first setting is when the taxpayer expects future tax rate increases and thus sells appreciated stock now for a gain taxed at the lower rate, and buys it back so that the future tax rate would be applied to a lower gain. This strategy makes the most sense when the current rate is zero, but can even make sense if the current rate is not zero (assuming a low enough time value of money cost of prepaying the tax). The second setting involves taxpayers who have carryovers (especially if they are soon to expire), in which case the taxpayer can realize wash gains to use up carryover and effectively write up the basis so that future sales will have a smaller taxable gain.

After detailing these recommendations, this Article explains why many wash gain transactions are vulnerable to attack by the Service and the courts. After showing how the economic substance doctrine and its many—sometimes overlapping—doctrines could apply to the wash gain, this Article then focuses on two strands of the substance-related doctrines: substantive sham and step transaction. The Article also fits its wash gain analysis into jurisprudence addressing whether a sale is a bona fide sale. Finally, the Article explains how the recent codification of the economic substance doctrine in section 7701(o), including related underpayment penalties, raises the stakes for wash gain sellers who lose the battle with the Service or the court. PUBLISHED THE TAX LAWYER (Winter 2018), Vol. 71, No. 2

Keywords: wash gain, wash loss, taxation, economic substance

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Veliotis, Stanley, Do Tax-Motivated Wash Gain Sales Pass Economic Muster? (May 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3174009
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies