Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Risks and Benefits of Offshore Private Placement Insurance

Practical Tax Strategies. This article was originally published in April 2018 issue of Thomson Reuters Checkpoint’s Practical Tax Strategies

5 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2018

Kevin Sweeney

Chamberlain Hrdlicka

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

Insurance wrappers are longstanding products that offer taxpayers legitimate tax, insurance and estate planning benefits. However, to achieve favorable tax treatment, wrappers must satisfy numerous complex Internal Revenue Code requirements that many offshore insurance wrappers may not meet. Despite their legitimacy as a product, some taxpayers abuse offshore insurance wrappers. The actions of these taxpayers have caught the attention of U.S. tax enforcement officials and caused these products to be scrutinized. Based on this spotlight, tax professionals who service high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients should familiarize themselves with the reporting requirements for offshore insurance wrappers, the taxation rules that apply to these products, and the taxpayer behaviors that can cause increased scrutiny. Armed with such knowledge, tax professionals can help their clients avoid and mitigate criminal and civil tax disputes with the IRS.

Keywords: Offshore bank account, insurance wrapper, tax evasion, private placement life insurance, PPLI, investor control doctrine, Swiss bank, OVDP, Voluntary Disclosure Program, FBAR, Form 8938, FATCA

JEL Classification: K34, K33, K42

Suggested Citation:

Sweeney, Kevin, The Tax Risks and Benefits of Offshore Private Placement Insurance (April 1, 2018). Practical Tax Strategies. This article was originally published in April 2018 issue of Thomson Reuters Checkpoint’s Practical Tax Strategies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3175359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,100
RANK
142,697
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies