Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More Bang for Your Buck: Tax Compliance in the United States and Italy

49 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018 Last revised: 29 May 2018

John D'Attoma

University of Exeter

Date Written: May 13, 2018

Abstract

In the present study, I investigate the relationship between perception of public institutions, trust, and tax compliance using a large tax compliance laboratory experiment conducted in Italy and the United States. I argue that how individuals perceive their public institutions - either as bad or good - is important factor in the tax compliance decision. In the first test, we performed a simple public goods game framed within a tax context to uncover that given the exact same decisions, contributions to the public good do not differ between Italy and the United States. In a second part of the experiment, we ask participants to pay taxes to their national government, pension fund, and fire department. In these rounds, however, behaviors diverge with Italian participants complying significantly less than Americans. Finally, I demonstrate that when equalizing for differences in trust in government, the variation in compliance disappears.

Suggested Citation:

D'Attoma, John, More Bang for Your Buck: Tax Compliance in the United States and Italy (May 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Alberto Alesina , Edward Ludwig Glaeser
Fighting poverty in the US and Europe: A world of difference Posted: 2004
Michael Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , Bernasconi , D J Laury , Lee
Culture, Compliance, and Confidentiality: Taxpayer Behavior in the United States and Italy
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 140 , p. 176 - 196 Posted: 2017
Crossref
James Alm
Testing behavioral public economics theories in the laboratory
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,048
RANK
677,757
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies