Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenges of Corporate Taxation in Iran: The Case of Construction Companies in the Province of Kurdistan

Studies in Business and Economics, 2018, 13(1), 58-66

9 Pages Posted: 27 May 2018

Shaho Heidari Gandoman

Department of Accounting, Sanandaj Branch, Islamic Azad University, Sanandaj, Iran; Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Department of Accounting

Gerasimos Soldatos

Date Written: May 16, 2018

Abstract

The present paper attempts to investigate the challenges of taxation in Iran based on the tax behavior of construction companies in Kurdistan Province. From a 165 questionnaires, Scheffe and Friedman tests were applied to test the following research hypotheses: Efficiency of tax laws, the role of tax experts in filing correct tax reports, the extent to which willing or unwilling tax noncompliance is detectable, and the effectiveness of penalties considering the case of construction companies. The evidence rejects tax law efficiency as well as the efficiency of the penalty-reward system and confirms the negative impact of tax noncompliance on tax revenue. Also, interestingly enough, neither the input of financial expertise in filling out tax reports nor the role of accounting information when taxable income is reported is shown to be statistically significant. Altogether these results point to a highly problematic tax regime in Iran at least in so far as corporate tax from construction companies in Iranian Kurdistan is concerned.

Keywords: Iran, tax laws, tax culture, accounting information

JEL Classification: H25, K34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Heidari Gandoman, Shaho and Heidari Gandoman, Shaho and Soldatos, Gerasimos, The Challenges of Corporate Taxation in Iran: The Case of Construction Companies in the Province of Kurdistan (May 16, 2018). Studies in Business and Economics, 2018, 13(1), 58-66, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Abdul Hamid , A R Abdullah , A
Mo International Journal of Applied Sciences , volume 12 , issue 7 , p. 742 - 755
A Askari
Challenges, Programs and the Tax System operation , volume 1 , p. 85 - 120 Posted: 2013
H Azarniyoosh , M J Majidi
Posted: 2016
Taxable Income and Income Assessed by Tax Authorities (A Case Study: The Tax Offices in Yazd Provinc International Journal of Humanities and Cultural Studies
April Special Issue , p. 642 - 649
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies