Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carried Interest and Beyond: The Nature of Private Equity Investment and Its International Tax Implications

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 37, No. 3, p.421 (2018)

University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 270

64 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2018 Last revised: 17 Jul 2018

Young Ran (Christine) Kim

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: May 23, 2018

Abstract

Private equity funds (PEFs) eliminate entity-level taxation by using pass-through entities. They further minimize their investors’ tax liability by taking the position that profits distributed to both general partners (GPs) and limited partners (LPs) are passive portfolio investment income and taxed preferentially. The taxation of carried interest at low capital gains rates is likely the most infamous loophole. This article challenges such tax position and instead argues that the nature of PEF investment is active. PEFs seek to influence their portfolio companies to increase their value so that they actively manage the companies by acquiring at least 10% of their stock, which does not conceptually accord with portfolio investments. The proposed theory that PEFs are active is further supported by recent proposals on carried interest as well as cases and rulings holding that PEFs are involved in a “trade or business.”

This article also considers international tax implications of the new theory: it switches the primary tax jurisdiction to levy tax on PEFs’ cross-border income. This change may be justified for GPs who erode the tax base of a source country, but less justified for LPs because of their genuinely passive involvement, notwithstanding that LPs’ tax-exempt or nonresident status enables GPs’ abusive activities. Finally, determining the true nature of PEF investment and reforming PEF tax accordingly would increase worldwide revenue without significantly reducing the revenue of traditional residence countries, because the traditional residence countries, such as the United States, are also major source countries in the PEF industry.

Keywords: Private equity, International tax, Carried interest, Source taxation, Residence taxation, Foreign portfolio investment

JEL Classification: G23, G24, H25, G26, K34, F21, F23

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Ran (Christine), Carried Interest and Beyond: The Nature of Private Equity Investment and Its International Tax Implications (May 23, 2018). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 37, No. 3, p.421 (2018), University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 270, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3183763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Nat&apos;l Tax J Reform
Posted: 2003
Graetz
, p. 270 - 77
Crossref
Daniel Shaviro
The David R. Tillinghast Lecture -The Rising Tax-Electivity of U.S. Corporate Residence, 64 TAX L. REV , volume 377 , p. 386 - 87 Posted: 2010
&amp; Graetz , Grinberg
, p. 556 - 75
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,259
RANK
209,542
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies