Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Was the AMT Effectively Repealed?

Tax Notes, P. 495, April 23, 2018

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 18-11

15 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018

Reed Shuldiner

University of Pennsylvania Law School

Date Written: April 23, 2018

Abstract

The individual alternative minimum tax (AMT) was a much disliked feature of the tax law prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Yet, despite repeated promises to repeal the AMT as part of tax reform, the TCJA dropped AMT repeal in favor of increasing the AMT exemption and its phaseout threshold. The question raised by this development is whether the AMT changes should be viewed as yet another stop-gap tweak of the AMT or whether the changes should be viewed as returning the AMT to its roots as a tax on high-income taxpayers using excessive loopholes. In this essay I compare the AMT before and after the TCJA. I show how the pre-reform AMT and regular tax were structured in such a way as to capture a broad swath of taxpayers who did nothing more than use common personal deductions. By contrast, I show that the new AMT is a much defanged version of the old. Under the TCJA many fewer taxpayers will be exposed to the AMT and those who are exposed are likely to look much more like the sort of taxpayers that were the original target of the tax: high income taxpayers taking advantage of loopholes.

Keywords: Individual income taxation, tax law & policy, tax reform, alternative minimum tax, AMT exemption & phaseout threshold, high-income taxpayers, preference income, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, TCJA, equity

JEL Classification: H24, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shuldiner, Reed, Was the AMT Effectively Repealed? (April 23, 2018). Tax Notes, P. 495, April 23, 2018, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 18-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3183960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
RANK
381,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies