Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance in Teams - Implications of Joint Decisions and Shared Consequences

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2018-3

38 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Aug 2019

Tim Lohse

Berlin School of Economics and Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE)

Sven A. Simon

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 24, 2018

Abstract

In today's business environment, team work is omnipresent. But might teams be more prone toward non-compliance with laws and regulations than single individuals despite imminent negative consequences of uncovering misconduct? The recent prevalence of corporate delinquencies gives rise to this concern. In our laboratory experiment, we investigate the determinants of teams' compliance behavior. In particular, we disentangle the effect of deciding jointly as a team of two from sharing the economic consequences among both team members. Our findings provide evidence that teams are substantially less compliant than individuals are. This drop in compliance is driven by the joint, rather than the individual, liability of team members. In contrast, whether subjects make their decisions alone or together does not influence the overall compliance rate. When coordinating their compliance decision teams predominately discuss the risk of getting caught in an audit, and team decision-making is characterized by behavioral spillovers between team members. Holding each team member fully liable is a promising means to deter them from going astray.

Keywords: Compliance, lying, team decision, shared liability, audit, communication, laboratory experiment

JEL Classification: C92, D91, K42

Suggested Citation:

Lohse, Tim and Simon, Sven A., Compliance in Teams - Implications of Joint Decisions and Shared Consequences (May 24, 2018). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2018-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3184169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Johannes Abeler , Anke Becker , Armin Falk
Representative evidence on lying costs
Journal of Public Economics , volume 113 , p. 96 - 104 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Johannes Abeler , Armin Falk , Lorenz Goette , David Hu¤man
Reference points and e¤ort provision
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Martin Abraham , Kerstin Lorek , Friedemann Richter , Matthias Wrede
Collusive tax evasion and social norms
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 197 Posted: 2017
Crossref
James Alm , Kim M Bloomquist , Michael Mckee
When You Know Your Neighbour Pays Taxes: Information, Peer E¤ects and Tax Compliance , volume 38 , p. 587 - 613 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
RANK
355,843
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies