Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The False Promise of Presidential Indexation

36 Yale Journal on Regulation 693 (2019)

41 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2018 Last revised: 1 Aug 2019

Daniel J. Hemel

New York University School of Law

David Kamin

New York University School of Law

Date Written: May 24, 2018

Abstract

The Trump Administration faces mounting pressure from conservative thinkers and activists — including calls from its own National Economic Council director — to promulgate a U.S. Treasury Department regulation that indexes capital gains for inflation. Proponents of such a move — which is sometimes called “presidential indexation” — make three principal arguments in favor of the proposal: (1) that inflation indexing would be an economic boon; (2) that the President and his Treasury Department have legal authority to implement inflation indexing without further congressional authorization; and (3) that in any event, it is unlikely that anyone would have standing to challenge such an action in court. This Article evaluates the proponents’ three arguments and concludes that all are faulty. First, whatever the merits of comprehensive legislation that adjusts the taxation of capital gains and various other elements of the Internal Revenue Code for inflation, rifle-shot regulatory action that targets only the capital gains tax would be costly and regressive, would open a number of large loopholes that allow for rampant tax arbitrage, and would be unlikely to significantly enhance growth. Second, the legal authority for presidential indexation simply does not exist. The Justice Department under the first President Bush reached the conclusion in 1992 that the Executive Branch cannot implement inflation indexing unilaterally, and doctrinal developments in the last quarter century have — if anything — strengthened that conclusion. Third, a number of potential plaintiffs — including a Democrat-controlled House of Representatives, certain states, brokers subject to statutory basis reporting requirements, and investment funds whose tax liability could rise as a result of the regulation — would likely have standing to challenge presidential indexation in federal court. In sum, the promise of presidential indexation turns out too hollow, and calls for unilateral action should be spurned.

Keywords: presidential indexation, capital gains, inflation, indexing, basis

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemel, Daniel J. and Kamin, David, The False Promise of Presidential Indexation (May 24, 2018). 36 Yale Journal on Regulation 693 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3184051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
EPA, 549 U.S , volume 497 Posted: 2007
Crossref
See Id
, p. 519 - 539
Crossref
Id
For discussions of this subject, see, for example
59 CASE W. RES. L. REV , volume 1061 , p. 1071 - 78 Posted: 2009
Dru Stevenson
176. Memorandum from Jeh Johnson Posted: 2007-11-20
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
875
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,807
RANK
62,961
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies