Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Corporate Savings Policies

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 11 Apr 2021

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 10, 2021

Abstract

We examine the relation between corporate cash holdings and tax net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). The literature demonstrates that firms should distribute cash to shareholders rather than retain it and generate passive investment income taxed at both corporate and investor levels. However, if the firm’s tax rate on passive income is lower than shareholders’—as when the firm has NOLs—theory also shows that the firm should retain cash and invest on the shareholders’ behalf. Consistent with this, we find that NOLs are associated with higher levels of savings; firms save an additional $0.12 to $0.17 per dollar of tax-effected NOL benefit. Furthermore, investors place a higher value on corporate cash in tax loss firms, consistent with NOLs increasing the after-tax returns on passive investments. The paper adds to the literature studying corporate financial policy responses to taxation and quantifies the role of NOLs in corporate savings decisions.

Keywords: Net Operating Losses, Taxes, Cash, Liquidity, Measurement

JEL Classification: H25, H26, K34, G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heitzman, Shane and Lester, Rebecca, Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Corporate Savings Policies (April 10, 2021). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3185018 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3185018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,221
RANK
113,317
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies