Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Financial Statement Readability

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2018 Last revised: 24 Aug 2020

Justin Hung Nguyen

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether managers of firms that engage in high levels of tax avoidance (TA) strategically reduce their financial statement readability (FSR) to mitigate the risk of exposing their TA strategies. On average, results are inconclusive, but mainly hold in the sample of firms with low effective tax rates (i.e., high TA levels). Specifically, focused on firms with above-industry-median TA, the panel regression results show a negative relation between TA and FSR, and the difference-in-differences analysis, based on the “Check-the-Box” regulation in 1997 that exogenously increases tax planning opportunities, suggests the negative impact of TA on FSR is likely causal. The relationship is stronger for firms faced with a greater likelihood of tax audit ex ante, firms in industries with a higher tax risk, and firms with a larger institutional ownership. The evidence adds to our understanding of the influence of corporate TA on financial disclosures.

Keywords: tax avoidance; financial statement readability; tax audit risk

JEL Classification: G18; G21; H26; M41

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Justin Hung, Tax Avoidance and Financial Statement Readability (June 1, 2019). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3187112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3187112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Christof Beuselinck , Belen Blanco , Sandip Dhole , Gerald J. Lobo
Financial Statement Readability and Tax Aggressiveness
Pages: 45 Posted: 29 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,770
RANK
232,542
13 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies