Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Welfare and Political Organizations: Ending the Plague of Inconsistency

New York University Journal of Legislation and Public Policy, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2018 Last revised: 13 Apr 2019

Roger Colinvaux

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Columbus School of Law

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

Since the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United v. FEC, tax-exempt social welfare groups (also known as 501(c)(4) organizations) increasingly are used in political campaigns, often instead of political organizations (also known as PACs, SuperPACs, or 527s). This Article first compares the tax law treatment of social welfare organizations to that of political organizations. Although section 501(c)(4) organizations have several key advantages, including anonymity for donors and tax preferred financing, unlike 527s, 501(c)(4)s face a limit on their political activities (the “primarily” test). IRS efforts to police the primarily test caused a political firestorm, sometimes referred to as the “Tea Party” targeting controversy. The Article explains that the root cause of the controversy is inconsistent federal disclosure law, which was largely a byproduct of Citizens United. The Article argues that so long as 501(c)(4) offers preferred treatment for campaign activity, political operatives will have strong incentives to organize as 501(c)(4) organizations and exploit ambiguities in the law and weak IRS enforcement. The result is and will continue to be a gradual erosion of the rule of law, destabilization of the tax exemption system, and damage to the reputation of the IRS as an essential government agency. The Article discusses possible solutions to the controversy. Most importantly, Congress should end the ability to engage in statutory arbitrage and provide for consistent treatment of campaign activity between 501(c)(4) and political organizations. Consistent rules would also pave the way to reconsider the current limits on political activity that apply to 501(c)(4) organizations. Overall, consistent rules and fewer limits would simplify tax administration, improve compliance, and embrace free speech.

Keywords: 501(c)(4), 527, Social Welfare Groups, Dark Money, Tea Party Targeting, PACs, Disclosure

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Colinvaux, Roger, Social Welfare and Political Organizations: Ending the Plague of Inconsistency (May 31, 2018). New York University Journal of Legislation and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,071
RANK
429,779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies