Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Redistributive Effects of China's Personal Income Tax

Asia & the Pacific Policy Studies, Issue 2, Volume 5, pages 220-234.

Crawford School of Public Policy, The Australian National University

15 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2018

Li Du

Fudan University

ZhongXiang Zhang

Tianjin University - Ma Yinchu School of Economics

Date Written: April 26, 2018

Abstract

Personal income tax is a commonly used redistributive instrument to deal with inequality. Whether it achieves that efficacy requires an appropriate measurement. This paper aims to examine the redistributive effects of personal income tax (PIT) based on the generalized entropy indexes. Compared with the commonly used approach based on the Gini coefficient, the generalized entropy indexes are more sensitive to the structural features of the redistributive effects and can lead to more reliable evaluation about the redistributive policy adjustments. Based on this new approach, we assess the redistributive effects of the 2011 PIT adjustment in China by using the urban household survey data. Different from previous studies, our results show that the 2011 PIT adjustment has effectively reduced the inequality within high income group, and if hidden income is taken into consideration, the overall inequality reduction resulted from the tax adjustment turns out to be positive. This finding highlights the importance of judging the redistributive effects of PIT on the basis of right household income data and that China should pay more attention to the hidden income in designing the redistributive tax rules.

Keywords: generalized entropy index, personal income tax, redistributive effects, hidden income, China

Suggested Citation:

Du, Li and Zhang, ZhongXiang, Measuring the Redistributive Effects of China's Personal Income Tax (April 26, 2018). Asia & the Pacific Policy Studies, Issue 2, Volume 5, pages 220-234., Crawford School of Public Policy, The Australian National University, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Araar , J Duclos
DASP: Distributive Analysis Stata Package. PEP, World Bank Posted: 2007
A B Atkinson
The Economics of Inequality Posted: 1985
B Brys , S Matthews , R Herd , X Wang
Tax Policy and Tax Reform in the People's Republic of China
OECD Taxation Working Papers , p. 1 - 60 Posted: 2013
Crossref
F A Cowell
Measuring Inequality Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
805,836
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies