Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The CJEU and the Internal Market Concept in Direct Taxation

EU Tax Law and Policy in the 21st Century (2017)

Tilburg Law School Research Paper

Posted: 27 Jun 2018

Eric Kemmeren

Tilburg Law School; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

From the ever-growing body of case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), it is clear that primary European law sets limits to Member States’ domestic tax law and tax treaty law. In this context, the Treaty on the European Union (TEU) and especially the fundamental freedoms included in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), restrict the Member States’ competence to make, interpret, and apply their direct tax laws and tax treaties. The role of the CJEU as highest interpreter of EU law is an essential element in the organization of the European Union (EU).

One of the aims of the EU is to establish an internal market. The internal market shall comprise an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the Treaties.

The research question of this chapter is, therefore: What is and what should be the role of the CJEU in establishing the EU’s internal market in direct tax matters?

In this context, the author will analyse existing jurisprudence, identify recent trends and investigate potential future developments in selected areas. It is obvious that, in the context of this chapter, a selection must be made. It is not possible to comprehensively cover the field of direct taxation. It is simply too extensive. Therefore, the author will discuss three of the main issues in the field of direct taxation. They potentially have a great impact on the establishment of the internal market. Furthermore, for at least two of the areas, the CJEU has developed an extensive body of case law. The three selected issues are: (1) personal and family circumstances, (2) tax treaty override, and (3) exit and final settlement taxes.

In order to be able to deliver a reasoned answer to the research question, a benchmark will be first developed. This benchmark will be used to assess the Court’s case law and as a basis on which to make suggestions for improvement, if necessary. After having developed the benchmark, the author will discuss, in more detail, the role of the CJEU in relation to the internal market in the context of direct taxation. Subsequently, the author will discuss the role of the CJEU in the context of developing the internal market with respect to the three issues mentioned above. With respect to personal and family circumstances, the author will discuss the Schumacker doctrine. With respect to tax treaty override, the author will address the pre- and post-Lisbon era. Finally, with respect to exit and settlement taxes, the author will review developments from De Lasteyrie to Commission v Portugal 2016. The author will end with some main conclusions and recommendations.

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Kemmeren, Eric, The CJEU and the Internal Market Concept in Direct Taxation (2017). EU Tax Law and Policy in the 21st Century (2017), Tilburg Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3194570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies