Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Netherlands I: Fiscal Unity, Groupe Steria's Per-Element Approach and Currency Losses Relating to a Non-Resident Subsidiary (C-399/16[X NV]); Starbucks and State Aid (T-760/15 and T-636/16)

CJEU - Recent Developments in Direct Taxation 2016 (2017)

Tilburg Law School Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Jun 2018

Eric Kemmeren

Tilburg Law School; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

In this contribution, the author discusses three cases. The first case, Case C-399/16 (X NV) is a case which has been inspired by the Groupe Steria decision. The main issue in Case C-399/16 (X NV) is whether the Groupe Steria decision implies that a Dutch resident parent company cannot be denied the right to take into account currency losses in respect of a UK resident subsidiary. The Netherlands has denied this right on the basis of the Dutch participation exemption. The possible inconsistency with EU law has been founded on the idea that a Dutch resident parent company could have taken into account currency losses if the UK resident subsidiary had been a Dutch resident subsidiary with a permanent establishment (PE) in the UK and that subsidiary had been included in a fiscal unity with its Dutch resident parent company. Can this single element of the Dutch fiscal unity regime be relied on because of the Groupe Steria decision? This per-element approach may be relevant not only for the Netherlands, but for all EU Member States and EEA Member States which have a group taxation regime.

The two other cases to be discussed, T-760/15 (The Netherlands v. Commission) and T-636/16 (Starbucks and Starbucks Manufacturing Emea v Commission), concern the European Commission decision that Starbucks received forbidden State aid from the Netherlands through an advanced pricing agreement (APA) concluded between Starbucks and the Dutch Tax Authorities (DTA). Both the Netherlands (Case T-760/15) and Starbucks (Case T-636/16) have appealed the decision. The European Commission is very active in the field of taxation of MNEs and potential State aid. In the Starbucks case the arm’s length pricing is at stake, but the Commission is also active in respect of other fields. Sometimes the fields are closely related, such as in the Apple case which concerns the allocation of profits between head office and PE. However, mismatches are also under investigation, such as the mismatch of the PE concept under the US-Luxembourg tax treaty leading to double non-taxation in the McDonald’s case. The Starbucks case may also be relevant for all EU and EEA Member States, because APA practices are widely applied by the Member States.

This contribution starts by discussing Case C-399/16 (X NV) which is followed with a discussion of the Starbucks cases. For each of the cases, an initial description of the facts is provided. Subsequently, domestic tax law and tax treaty law are addressed. Next, the considerations of the Hoge Raad (HR; Dutch Supreme Court) and the Commission are set out respectively. Thereafter, the focus is on the preliminary questions of the HR and the pleas in law and main arguments in the Starbucks cases. Potential answers to the questions raised are then provided along with comments on the positions taken by the EC, the Netherlands and Starbucks from the author’s personal perspective. These potential answers and comments are not be given in isolation, rather they are based on benchmarks. The contribution is closed by summarizing the author’s main conclusions.

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Kemmeren, Eric, The Netherlands I: Fiscal Unity, Groupe Steria's Per-Element Approach and Currency Losses Relating to a Non-Resident Subsidiary (C-399/16[X NV]); Starbucks and State Aid (T-760/15 and T-636/16) (August 1, 2017). CJEU - Recent Developments in Direct Taxation 2016 (2017), Tilburg Law School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3194598
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies