Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Did the CRA Expect the Adoption of IFRS To Affect Corporate Tax Compliance and Avoidance?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 1, 2018

22 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2018

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Dawn Mains

Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (SAIT)

Olayemi M. Olabiyi

Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (SAIT)

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: March 29, 2018

Abstract

From 2008 to 2011, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) developed a series of bulletins distributed to its internal auditors, alerting them to the fact that the adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) may affect corporate tax reporting. In this study, we review 10 CRA IFRS internal bulletins and one internal memorandum from the office of the director general. We discuss the accounting issues addressed in each bulletin, the tax risks and taxpayer actions identified by the CRA that could lead to corporate tax avoidance, and finally the CRA's prescriptions for detecting or deterring corporate tax avoidance. We found that the CRA did have concerns that the adoption of IFRS in 2011 and prior years, coupled with the discontinuation of Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), could lead to various accounting issues, including increased risk that inappropriate tax adjustments would be made for certain enumerated items. This article presents preliminary evidence that accounting standards may affect corporate tax compliance and avoidance. The CRA's concerns are plausible since the starting point for the computation of taxable income is accounting net income. Many firms may engage in tax-avoidance behaviour when they adopt an accounting standard that lends itself to aggressive reporting. The interaction effects of the uncertainty created by the change in GAAP and the tax authority's heightened concern about corporate tax avoidance could be an important area for future study.

Keywords: IFRS, international financial reporting standards, compliance, CRA, tax avoidance, corporate income taxes

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi and Mains, Dawn and Olabiyi, Olayemi M. and Warsame, Hussein A., How Did the CRA Expect the Adoption of IFRS To Affect Corporate Tax Compliance and Avoidance? (March 29, 2018). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3195488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Luzi Holger Daske , Christian Hail , Rodrigo Leuz , Verdi
Adopting a Label: Heterogeneity in the Economic Consequences Around IAS/IFRS Adoptions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 547 Posted: 2013
Christian Leuz , Peter D Wysocki
The Economics of Disclosure and Financial Reporting Regulation: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 525 - 622 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,673
RANK
297,327
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies