Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Due Diligence in International Tax Law

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 608

16 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018 Last revised: 27 Sep 2018

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Gianluca Mazzoni

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: June 19, 2018

Abstract

The concept of due diligence has been primarily developed in the state context (e.g., investor protection, environmental law), where it has been stated that “[t]he obligation to take preventative measures is one of due diligence, not an absolute guarantee against the occurrence of harm.” In international finance law, the concept is applied to private actors, especially financial institutions. The concept was first developed in the prevention of money laundering (covered elsewhere in this book) but then applied to prevention of tax evasion. In that context, since it would put an unreasonable burden on financial institutions to completely prevent tax evasion, all that is required is due diligence. This chapter describes how the due diligence standard was developed in international tax law before 2008, and then how the standard was greatly modified after the financial crisis, the enactment of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2010 (FATCA), and the subsequent development of the Common Reporting Standards (CRS).

Keywords: due diligence, international tax, FATCA, CRS, AOEI

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Mazzoni, Gianluca, Due Diligence in International Tax Law (June 19, 2018). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 608, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3198495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3198495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,804
RANK
161,684
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies