Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Curvature and Competitiveness: Carbon Taxes in Cattle Markets

50 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2018 Last revised: 25 May 2021

Brandon Schaufele

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Date Written: May 13, 2021

Abstract

Environmental regulation can interact with agricultural markets to produce underappreciated competitiveness and leakage effects. This paper measures effective carbon tax stringency by structurally recovering the domestic supply schedule for a trade-exposed beef cattle industry such that elasticities and carbon tax rates change with product prices (i.e., due to the curvature of the supply function). Two basic propositions from the economics of taxation -- that excess burdens increase in elasticities and tax rates -- are shown to cause the stringency of uniform carbon policy to vary nonlinearly with output prices. Based on the domestic supply function, the relationship between marginal excess burden, a measure of policy stringency from the industry's perspective, and product prices is estimated. Several policy-relevant counterfactual scenarios are explored. Results show that with moderately high output prices, supply elasticities are small and the efficiency cost of a $40/tCO2e carbon tax (gross of environmental benefits) is less than $0.01 per dollar tax revenue. As prices decline, supply curves become increasingly elastic and marginal excess burdens grow rapidly.

Keywords: Carbon pricing; cattle; leakage; marginal excess burden; production function

JEL Classification: H23, Q1, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Schaufele, Brandon, Curvature and Competitiveness: Carbon Taxes in Cattle Markets (May 13, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3199988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3199988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Alberta Aaf , Agriculture , Forestry
Development of a Farm-Level Greenhouse Gas Assessment: Identification of Knowledge Gaps and Development of a Science Plan Posted: 2003
Alberta Aaf , Agriculture , Forestry
Costs and Return Benchmarks for Crops and Forages Posted: 2015
Daniel A Ackerberg , Kevin Caves , Garth Frazer
Identification properties of recent production function estimators
Econometrica , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 2411 - 2451 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Rgd Allen , A P Lerner
The concept of arc elasticity of demand
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 226 - 230 Posted: 1934
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
538,270
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies