Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unilateralism, Bilateralism, and Multilateralism in International Taxation

Japanese Yearbook of International Law, Vol. 59, 216-228, 2016

14 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Keigo Fuchi

Kobe University - Graduate School of Law

Date Written: June 13, 2016

Abstract

We have several kinds of measures for mitigating or eliminating international double taxation and stimulating international trade. Some of them are unilateral, the others are bilateral, and still others are multilateral. A natural question here: why we have all these measures? The answer lies in the historical development of international tax system. In the early days of income taxation, countries implemented unilateral measures to mitigate international double taxation. The United Kingdom adopted the Dominion Income Tax Relief. The United States introduced rather generous measures, the foreign tax credit. Other countries allowed tax credit for foreign income tax or exempted foreign income altogether. These unilateral measures are still in place. Beginning in the 1930s, countries have concluded bilateral tax treaties to eliminate double taxation completely or to encourage trade between two countries. If the countries had successfully concluded a multilateral tax treaty in the 1930s, bilateral tax treaties would not have proliferated today. Even though we don’t have any multilateral tax treaties, we have tax norms based on a multinational consensus. The OECD has developed its model tax treaty and guidelines for transfer pricing. Recently, G20/OECD published reports on their project against base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). In sum, partly because of a historical coincidence, all three kinds of measures are and will be in place in the field of international taxation.

Keywords: tax treaty, foreign tax credits, the League of Nations

JEL Classification: F20, F60, H20, H26, H87, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fuchi, Keigo, Unilateralism, Bilateralism, and Multilateralism in International Taxation (June 13, 2016). Japanese Yearbook of International Law, Vol. 59, 216-228, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
252,723
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Courts & Adjudication eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies