Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Others in the Age of Trump: Foreigners (and the Politically Weak) As Tax Subject

62 Saint Louis University L.J. 157 (Forthcoming)

19 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2018 Last revised: 13 Jul 2020

Henry Ordower

Saint Louis University - School of Law

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Critical tax theory identifies systemic imbalances in taxation that impose disproportionally high tax burdens on groups who lack or fail to exercise political power. This article focuses on foreigners as an ideal taxpaying group because it does not vote. The article identifies some ways in which the Trump administration might seize the opportunity of that political weakness to capture tax revenue from that group without compromising an otherwise anti-tax agenda.

Keywords: immigrants, taxation, international taxation, tariffs

JEL Classification: H22, H24, H25, H30, H41, H55, H87, K34, K37

Suggested Citation:

Ordower, Henry, Taxing Others in the Age of Trump: Foreigners (and the Politically Weak) As Tax Subject (2017). 62 Saint Louis University L.J. 157 (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3201249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
In federal elections, noncitizens may not vote, but some countries do permit resident noncitizens to vote. Peter Spiro, Noncitizen Voting Makes Sense. Why Don't Liberals Agree?
BLOOMBERG Posted: 2013-06-19
See Ryan Bubb , Michael Kremer , &amp; David , I Levine
Given the broad reach of the tax definition the Supreme Court adopted in National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius, 132 S.C. 2566, 2595 (2012) (holding shared responsibility payment is a tax), such a border payment would be classified as a tax despite the limited number of individuals it would affect. 63. William Saletan
Business as Usual , volume 367 Posted: 2011-02-05
Henry Ordower
Retreat from Progressive Taxation in the Swedish Welfare State: Does Immigration Matter? 5 , volume 18 Posted: 2014
Crossref
he correlation between the shift from progressive to regressive taxes and changes in immigration patterns and resulting cultural diversification in Sweden is remarkable
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
RANK
663,174
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies