Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Who Speaks for Tax Equity and Tax Fairness?' The Emergence of the Organized Tax Bar and the Dilemmas of Professional Responsibility

81 Law & Contemporary Problems 203 (2018)

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 18-22

38 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 21 Aug 2018

Joseph J. Thorndike

Tax Analysts

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: June 26, 2018

Abstract

During the first six decades of the 20th century, lawyers in the United States grappled with their role in stewarding the nation’s tax system. As 19th century tariffs gave way to 20th century income taxes, legal professionals found themselves at the center of a complex and momentous transformation of the American state and its fiscal underpinnings. In the early 20th century, a subset of these legal professionals came to view themselves principally as “tax lawyers,” a previously unknown category within the legal profession. This process of self-identification also involved a certain amount of organizational creativity, and during the first four decades of the century, tax lawyers organized a series of ad hoc groups within the broader American Bar Association (ABA). In 1939, the ABA grudgingly established a permanent Section of Taxation, recognizing belatedly the importance and durability of this legal specialty. One of the central challenges facing leaders of the Tax Section was difficult questions about the public role of the private tax bar. This article explores how the organized tax bar navigated the tensions between serving private clients and defending the integrity of the tax system. Stanley Surrey, one of those leaders, identified and scrutinized this professional dilemma with more clarity and conviction than nearly any other tax law professional. The problem, as Surrey understood it, was that tax lawyers had other responsibilities competing with their duty to the fisc. The tension between a tax lawyer’s public and private responsibilities was not easily resolved. But the ABA Tax Section never stopped trying, and this paper explores those efforts during the first six decades of the 20th century. By the early 1960s, Tax Section leaders had begun to define an important, if circumscribed, public role for the private bar – one focused less on broad issues of political economy and more on “technical tax matters” where it was possible to “balance fairly the interests of the ‘Government’ and the ‘taxpayer.’”

Keywords: Tax Policy, Tax Law, Fiscal History, History of American Legal Profession, Tax Professionals

JEL Classification: H2, H71, K34, N12, N22

Suggested Citation:

Thorndike, Joseph J. and Mehrotra, Ajay K., 'Who Speaks for Tax Equity and Tax Fairness?' The Emergence of the Organized Tax Bar and the Dilemmas of Professional Responsibility (June 26, 2018). 81 Law & Contemporary Problems 203 (2018), Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 18-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
E G See , L Phillip , Mann
A Brief History of the Tax Section Posted: 1939
K Harry , Mansfield
A Brief Unofficial History of the Tax Section-1939-1989 Posted: 1990
Robert N Miller
History of Section of Taxation, 8 BULL. 12 (1954) (chronicling the early history of the Section)
E G See , Mindy Herzfeld
How Lawyers Dominate: A History of the ABA Tax Section
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
388,855
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies