Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on the Relationship between Audit Probability and Internal Revenue Service Budget Levels

Accounting & Taxation, v. 10 (1) p. 1-12, 2018

21 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2019

Akinloye Akindayomi

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Gideon Tayo Akinleye

Ekiti State University

Adeduro A. Ogunmakin

Ekiti State University

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

Despite a large literature on tax avoidance strategies by individuals and the IRS ability to curb them, how the agency’s audit/examination activities respond to tax expenditures within the individual taxation context is not well understood. We hypothesize that IRS audit probability of individual tax returns will positively respond to the magnitude of different tax expenditure drivers if the agency has a shot at curtailing them. We find that while the probability of IRS audit increases as the agency’s budget on enforcement activities increases, tax expenditures do not appear to prompt IRS enforcement activities in many of the tax expenditures drivers.

Keywords: Tax Expenditures, Tax Avoidance, IRS Audit, Individual Income Taxation

JEL Classification: H24, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Akindayomi, Akinloye and Akinleye, Gideon Tayo and Ogunmakin, Adeduro A., Empirical Evidence on the Relationship between Audit Probability and Internal Revenue Service Budget Levels (2018). Accounting & Taxation, v. 10 (1) p. 1-12, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3203052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
D Ackerman , G Auten
Floors, Ceilings, and Opening the Door for a Non-itemizer Deduction
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 509 - 530 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Ackerman , G Auten
Tax Expenditures for Noncash Charitable Contributions
National Tax Journal , volume 64 , p. 651 - 687 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Akindayomi , H Warsame
IRS Enforcement and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Additional Empirical Evidence Posted: 2016
Sutirtha Bagchi
The Political Economy of Tax Enforcement: A Look at the IRS from 1978-2010
Pages: 41 Posted: 25 Jun 2012 Last revised: 21 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
841,621
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies