Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating and imputing missing tax loss carryforward data to reduce measurement error

European Accounting Review (forthcoming)

48 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2018 Last revised: 29 Apr 2021

Malte Max

VU University Amsterdam - Department of Accounting

Jacco L. Wielhouwer

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Eelke Wiersma

VU University, Amsterdam; VU University Amsterdam - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 29, 2021

Abstract

The ability to reduce current and future taxable income with prior years’ taxable losses is highly relevant for explaining firms’ effective tax rates. Compustat data on the tax loss carryforward (TLCF) are, however, often missing. We propose a method to estimate values for the missing TLCF data instead of the common practice in the literature of imputing zero values. In order to assess the accuracy of our method, we compare our estimated TLCFs with (i) a random selection of 10-K data and (ii) Compustat data for firm-years where Compustat data is available. The results show that our estimated values align very closely with the reported data. Re-analyzing Frank et al. (2009) shows that imputing our estimated values instead of zeros leads to a large decrease in measurement error. This reduces the risk that firms with missing data and low effective tax rates are incorrectly classified as tax aggressive. Consistent with this, a re-analysis of Dyreng et al. (2017) shows that using our estimated TLCFs leads to economically and statistically different conclusions compared to imputing zeros. Using our estimated values thus increases the probability of correct inferences in studies that use Compustat TLCF data. The estimated values are available from https://doi.org/10.34894/N9J1WE.

Keywords: tax loss carryforward, measurement error, tax aggressiveness, imputation

JEL Classification: C52, H25, H26, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Max, Malte and Wielhouwer, Jacco L. and Wiersma, Eelke and Wiersma, Eelke, Estimating and imputing missing tax loss carryforward data to reduce measurement error (April 29, 2021). European Accounting Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3204416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3204416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,292
RANK
299,879
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies