Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tradeoffs Between Tax and Financial Reporting Benefits: Evidence From Purchase Price Allocations in Taxable Acquisitions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-61

Posted: 2 Aug 2018

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Miles A. Romney

Florida State University - College of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Daniel Wangerin

Wisconsin School of Business

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

Under U.S. GAAP, firms recognize assets acquired in business combinations at fair value. Similarly, in taxable asset acquisitions firms adjust the tax basis of assets to fair value. Managers can increase the present value of future tax savings by allocating a greater portion of the purchase price to shorter-lived assets than to goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles. However, this tax planning strategy imposes a financial reporting cost because it reduces book income following the acquisition; all else equal, allocations to shorter-lived depreciable assets increase book depreciation expense whereas allocations to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles do not increase book amortization expense. We exploit the features of taxable asset acquisitions to investigate tradeoffs between tax and financial reporting incentives. We predict and find greater allocations to depreciable versus intangible assets when managers have strong tax incentives and weak financial reporting incentives. However, we also find that strong financial reporting incentives moderate the effects of strong tax incentives. These findings contribute new evidence to the literature on the importance of nontax costs in tax planning decisions.

Keywords: Book-Tax Tradeoffs, M&A, Goodwill, Tax Planning, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G34, K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lynch, Dan and Romney, Miles A. and Stomberg, Bridget and Wangerin, Daniel D., Tradeoffs Between Tax and Financial Reporting Benefits: Evidence From Purchase Price Allocations in Taxable Acquisitions (June 6, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3205227
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies