Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fairness and the Arm's Length Principle in a Digital Economy

Forschungsberichte des Fachbereichs Wirtschaftswissenschaften der Hochschule Düsseldorf Ausgabe 42 (2018) ISSN: 2365-3361

30 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2018

Stefan Greil

University of Hamburg

Christian Schwarz

University of Applied Sciences Duesseldorf

Stefan Stein

QUANTUM Steuerberatungsgesellschaft mbH

Date Written: July 6, 2018

Abstract

The OECD Base Erosion Profit Shifting (BEPS) Initiative as well as the current fairness oriented public discussion regarding the taxation of digital business models highlight the importance and complexity of the arm’s length principle. In a theoretical model of an internationally fragmented digital good’s production process, we show that fairness considerations of tax authorities (namely inequity aversion) can result in a falling apart between a perceived “fair” and arm’s length distribution of profits across tax jurisdictions.

Our model predicts that a multinational firm follows the fundamental paradigm of international taxation, i.e. the arm’s length principle, to properly incentivize internal agents involved in the production of a digital good. However, with inequity averse tax authorities, we find that tax authorities “prefer” a more equal distribution of profits compared to the arm’s length profit allocation. From a multinational firm’s perspective, inequity aversion among tax authorities dampens the strategic effect to – in accordance with arm’s length principle – shift profits to low tax countries.

Keywords: corporate income tax, profit-shifting, arm's length principle, fairness

JEL Classification: H26, H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Greil, Stefan and Schwarz, Christian and Stein, Stefan, Fairness and the Arm's Length Principle in a Digital Economy (July 6, 2018). Forschungsberichte des Fachbereichs Wirtschaftswissenschaften der Hochschule Düsseldorf Ausgabe 42 (2018) ISSN: 2365-3361, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3209205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Daron ; Acemoglu , Antràs , ; Pol , Elhanan Helpman
Contracts and Technology Adoption
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 3 , p. 916 - 943 Posted: 2007
Crossref
James ; Alm , Ana Juan , De
Isabel Sanchez
Economic and Noneconomic Factors in Tax Compliance
Kyklos , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1995
James ; Andreoni , Erard , ; Brian , Jonathan Feinstein
Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,771
RANK
140,880
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies