Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
OECD BEPS (In)Action 1: Factor Presence as a Solution to Tax Issues of the Digital Economy

72 Tax Law. 255 (2018)

44 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2018 Last revised: 29 Jun 2019

Monica Gianni

California State University Northridge

Date Written: July 8, 2018

Abstract

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) launched its project to address base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) in 2013 with an Action Plan of 15 Actions. Action 1 encompasses identifying difficulties the digital economy poses for applying existing international tax rules and developing options to address them. Under current international tax rules, an enterprise generally is not taxed in a country in which it does not have a physical presence. With the economy having evolved so that business can be conducted over the internet with no physical presence in a country, companies have been able to avoid taxation in many jurisdictions from which they generate significant income. The OECD issued a final report on Action 1 in 2015 and a subsequent report in 2018, yet has failed to recommend a solution to address the physical presence issue. In effect, Action 1 has become Inaction 1. Countries and the European Union have grown impatient with the OECD and have taken matters into their own hands, with countries and the European Commission (EC) proposing or enacting legislation to address head on the issue of nontaxation of multinational digital companies, tax authorities assessing tax against multinational companies under the existing rules, and the EC bringing actions against countries for illegal state aid.

This Article proposes that a factor presence standard be used instead of a physical presence standard for nexus based on a model used by states in the United States. Taxable presence for income tax purposes would be determined based on the factors of sales, employees, or property in a jurisdiction. The main objection to such a proposal is that it is too radical an approach to take at this time, even if it would solve the tax problems resulting from the evolution of the economy. The OECD has promised that it will reach a consensus solution by 2020 on how to address tax issues of the digital economy. As the OECD works toward a solution, it should seriously consider a factor presence approach that would offer certainty and fairness to multinational companies and their tax administrations.

Keywords: BEPS, Digital Economy, Factor Presence, Wayfair, Digitalized Economy

JEL Classification: K34, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gianni, Monica, OECD BEPS (In)Action 1: Factor Presence as a Solution to Tax Issues of the Digital Economy (July 8, 2018). 72 Tax Law. 255 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3211971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3211971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Ch , Viii , Finance
See Central Board of Direct Taxes, Dep't of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Gov't of India, Proposal for equalization levy on specified transactions
Report of the Comm. on Tax'n of E-Commerce Posted: 2016-02
Ch Viii
Finance Act , issue 28 Posted: 2016
Id
Clause 4 (Amendment of Section 9
Explanation 2A , volume 7 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
831
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,940
RANK
67,576
5 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies