Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of the TCJA's International Provisions: Lessons from Existing Research

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 856

U of Chicago, Public Law Working Paper No. 681

33 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2018 Last revised: 18 Oct 2024

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper discusses the potential consequences of the international tax provisions of the recent Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA), drawing on existing research. The TCJA’s dividend exemption provision is expected to eliminate distortions to the amount and timing of dividend repatriations. However, the efficiency gains from increased repatriations – which are primarily expected to increase shareholder payout – are likely to be modest. The paper uses the observed behavior of firms during the repatriation tax holiday implemented in 2005 to infer the relative magnitudes of the burdens created by the repatriation tax under the old (pre-TCJA) regime and by the TCJA’s new “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (GILTI) tax. It concludes that the TCJA increases the tax burden on US residence for many, and perhaps most, US MNCs. The paper also argues that the GILTI and “Foreign-Derived Intangible Income” (FDII) provisions are likely to create substantial distortions to the ownership of assets, both in the US and around the world. Overall, the scholarly evidence implies that the international provisions of the TCJA can reasonably be expected to create potentially large efficiency losses.

Keywords: International Taxation; Tax Reform; Tax Cut and Jobs Act; GILTI; FDII

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, The Consequences of the TCJA's International Provisions: Lessons from Existing Research (August 1, 2018). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 856, U of Chicago, Public Law Working Paper No. 681, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3212072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Salvador Barrios , Gaetan Nicodème , Agnieszka Maria Skonieczna , Antonio Vezzani
Patent Boxes Design, Patents Location and Local R&D
Economic Policy , volume 33 , issue 93 , p. 131 - 177 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Formula Apportionment: Is it Better Than the Current System and Are There Better Alternatives?
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 84 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin , Linda Krull
Bringing it home: A study of the incentives surrounding the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin , Linda Krull , Leslie A Robinson
Is US multinational dividend repatriation policy influenced by reporting incentives?
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 1463 - 1491 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,793
RANK
66,112
4 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Chicago Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies