Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Consumer-Directed Tax Credits Effectively Increase Demand? Experimental Evidence of Conditional Success

The Journal of the American Taxation Association (doi.org/10.2308/atax-51960)

Posted: 7 Aug 2018

Shane Stinson

University of Alabama

Beau Grant Barnes

Washington State University

Steve Buchheit

University of Alabama

Michaele L. Morrow

Suffolk University; Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: August 18, 2017

Abstract

We investigate whether consumer-directed tax credits motivate purchasing behavior in the same manner as traditional retail concessions (e.g., price discounts). In our experimental study, consumers choose between relatively expensive incentivized products and less expensive standard products. Consistent with negative views toward taxation (Moon 2009) and the default-interventionist model of dual process theories (Evans and Stanovich 2013a; Evans 2011), when the price difference between incentivized and standard products is small, tax credits are a less effective way to encourage demand than traditional retail concessions. However, when the price difference between incentivized and standard products is large, tax credits become a relatively effective purchase inducement. Our results suggest that public policy can be improved by considering the economic setting of tax-incentivized items.

Keywords: Behavioral Tax; Tax Incentives; Tax Policy; Tax Credits; Optimal Taxation

JEL Classification: H21

Suggested Citation:

Stinson, Shane and Barnes, Beau Grant and Buchheit, Steve and Morrow, Michaele L. and Morrow, Michaele L., Do Consumer-Directed Tax Credits Effectively Increase Demand? Experimental Evidence of Conditional Success (August 18, 2017). The Journal of the American Taxation Association (doi.org/10.2308/atax-51960), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3215984
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies