Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constraints on IRS Control: An Alternative Approach to Tax Gap Analysis

12 Int'l J. L. & Pol. Sci. (2018, Forthcoming).

15 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2018 Last revised: 3 Oct 2018

Jack Manhire

Texas A&M University School of Innovation; Bush School of Government & Public Service

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

A tax authority wants to take actions it knows will foster the greatest degree of voluntary taxpayer compliance to reduce the "tax gap." This paper suggests that even if a tax authority could attain a state of complete knowledge, there are constraints on whether and to what extent such actions would result in reducing the macro-level tax gap. These limits are not merely a consequence of finite agency resources. They are inherent in the system itself. To show that this is one possible interpretation of the tax gap data, the paper formulates known results in a different way by analyzing tax compliance as a population with a single covariate. This leads to a standard use of the logistic map to analyze the dynamics of non-compliance growth or decay over a sequence of periods. This formulation gives the same results as the tax gap studies performed over the past fifty years in the U.S. given the published margins of error. Limitations and recommendations for future work are discussed, along with some implications for tax policy.

Keywords: income tax, tax compliance, tax law, tax gap

JEL Classification: H2, H24, H25, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Manhire, Jack, Constraints on IRS Control: An Alternative Approach to Tax Gap Analysis (2018). 12 Int'l J. L. & Pol. Sci. (2018, Forthcoming)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M Schofield
Epictetus: Socratic, Cynic, Stoic
Philosophical Quarterly , volume 54 , issue 216 , p. 448 - 456 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J T Manhire
What Does Voluntary Tax Compliance Mean?: A Government Perspective
University of Pennsylvania Law Review Online , volume 164 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 17 Posted: 2015
J A
Dubin (2012) The Causes and Consequences of Income Tax Noncompliance , p. 5 - 11
United States Government Accountability Office )2005) Tax Compliance: Better Compliance Data and Long-term Goals Would Support a More Strategic IRS Approach to Reducing the Tax Gap Posted: 2005-07-18
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,824
RANK
514,796
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies