Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion and Financial Instability

Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018 Last revised: 22 Jan 2020

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This study explores the association between tax evasion and financial instability. The discussion also examines the effect of tax evasion for financial instability. The discussion shows that tax evasion can reduce the tax revenue available to governments to manage the economy, and to weaken its ability to promote stability in financial systems, while on the other hand, taxpayers who evade taxes feel they can use the evaded tax money to rather improve their own financial stability.

Keywords: Tax, Tax evasion, financial stability, financial crisis, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Tax Evasion and Financial Instability (2020). Journal of Financial Crime, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
F Allen , D Gale
Competition and financial stability
Journal of Money, Credit, and banking , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 453 - 480 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Tax Evasion and Inequality
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2017
Crossref
A J Auerbach , W G Gale
Perspectives on the Budget Surplus (No. w7837 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,404
RANK
120,023
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies