Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Conformity Level of Income Tax Accounting in Jordan with the Requirements of the International Accounting Standard IAS (12) in Terms of Taxable Temporary Differences’ Recognition

International Business Research Vol. 10, No. 5; 2017

10 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2018

Ahmad Adel Jamil Abdallah

University of Jordan - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 12, 2017

Abstract

The present study aimed to measuring the conformity level of income tax accounting in Jordan with the requirements of ISA (12), and because of increasing to apply the international standards by local and foreign companies in Jordan and Jordanian legislations it’s appear gap between the accounting profit and the tax profit caused Taxable temporary and permanent differences. The study seeks to achieve set of goals represented by studying and analyzing the compatibility level of income tax accounting by a questionnaire was distributed to 100 income and sales auditors working in the senior and moderate Taxpayers, directorates 85 questionnaires were retrieved and eighty were valid for the study’s purposes, the major results that is the study found the income tax accounting in Jordan does not adhere to the requirements of most of the international accounting standards as there were no presentation to the financial statements, and There was no recognition of Taxable temporary differences and deductible temporary differences (the differences between accounting profit and taxable profit) in the income tax accounting in Jordan.

Keywords: Income Tax Accounting, ISA (12) Requirements, Taxable Temporary Differences

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Abdallah, Ahmad Adel Jamil, The Conformity Level of Income Tax Accounting in Jordan with the Requirements of the International Accounting Standard IAS (12) in Terms of Taxable Temporary Differences’ Recognition (April 12, 2017). International Business Research Vol. 10, No. 5; 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3221069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3221069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Abo-Nasar , J Hmedat
Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting , p. 30 - 31 Posted: 2012
M Bdewi
Tax Accounting Posted: 2005
A Chaudhry
) interpretation and application of International Financial Reporting standards Posted: 2015
N A Ermakova , E M Gudshatullaeva
Peculiarities of the Application of Income Tax Standards by the Subsidiary Company in the Russian Accounting Practice
International Journal of Environmental & Science Education , volume 11 , issue 13 , p. 5873 - 5882 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
RANK
524,740
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies