Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment, the Corporate Tax Rate, and the Pricing of Franking Credits

31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018

28 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2018 Last revised: 5 Apr 2019

Peter L. Swan

University of New South Wales (UNSW Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 21, 2019

Abstract

I apply a new single-pass CAPM methodology for assessing systematic risk to all ASX stocks which indicates that securities which pay franking credits in Australia appear to face far less systematic risk than do stocks that never pay franking credits. But in this context, this apparent reduction in systematic risk can be interpreted as being due to franking credits that are close to being fully priced. An efficient equilibrium is reached in which the marginal investor in Australia pays little or no Australian corporate tax because, once she exhausts compulsory savings, she borrows offshore and converts debt to equity.

Keywords: Franking credit, imputation benefit, corporate tax, investment, small country

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Swan, Peter Lawrence, Investment, the Corporate Tax Rate, and the Pricing of Franking Credits (March 21, 2019). 31st Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222115 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3222115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
S Beer , A Klemm , T Matheson
Tax Spillovers from U.S. Corporate Income Tax Reform Posted: 2018
Crossref
F Black , M Scholes
The Effects of Dividend-Yield and Dividend Policy on Common Stock Prices and Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1974
Crossref
M J Brennan
Taxes, Market Valuation and Corporate Financial Policy
National Tax Journal , volume 23 , p. 417 - 427 Posted: 1970
L Cao , A Hosking , M Kouparitsas , M Mullaly , X Rimmer , Q Shi , W Stark , S Wende
Understanding the economy-wide efficiency and incidence of major Australian taxes
International Comparisons of Corporate Income Tax Rates Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,221
RANK
294,906
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies