Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Relationship of Professionals Towards the Vertical Equity of the Slovenian Tax System and Its Comparison With Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the USA

Mednarodna revija za javno upravo, letnik (International Public Administration Review), 15(3-4), 145–165, 2017

21 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018

Jelena Klopčič

Studio Moderna

Maja Klun

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Administration

Date Written: December 30, 2017

Abstract

Vertical equity states that taxpayers whose positions are not the same should be treated differently while taking into consideration all the relevant characteristics. The main purpose of using the vertical equity principle is to require the redistribution of income in a way that reduces the income inequality of the society. The presented research aims to check the opinion of Slovenian tax system professionals on the principle of vertical equity. Slovenian results have been compared to a similar analysis carried out in Croatia, and partly with survey results from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States of America. The results show that the professional public agrees with the principle of vertical equity in the implementation of tax systems. All of the compared countries are similarly favourable towards vertical equity. However, this is also affected by the current tax arrangements of the individual countries.

Keywords: vertical equity, tax system, equitable distribution, Slovenia

JEL Classification: H23, H30, E62

Suggested Citation:

Klopčič, Jelena and Klun, Maja, Analysis of the Relationship of Professionals Towards the Vertical Equity of the Slovenian Tax System and Its Comparison With Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the USA (December 30, 2017). Mednarodna revija za javno upravo, letnik (International Public Administration Review), 15(3-4), 145–165, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
D Altig , A J Auerbach , L J Koltikoff , K A Smetters , J Walliser
Simulating Fundamental Tax Reform in the United States
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 3 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Ashworth , B Heyndels
Politicians' Preferences on Local Tax Rates: An Empirical Analysis
European Journal of Political Economy , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 502 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
The Design of Tax Structure: Direct versus Indirect Taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1976
Crossref
A J Auerbach , L J Kotlikoff
Dynamic Fiscal Policy Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
534,865
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies