Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Taxes Affect Workplace Safety?

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-036

51 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2018 Last revised: 18 Oct 2018

Daniel Bradley

University of South Florida

Connie X. Mao

Temple University - Department of Finance; Temple University - Department of Finance

Chi Zhang

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Date Written: July 31, 2018

Abstract

We examine how workplace injury rates change when firms are subject to a corporate tax shock. We find that tax increases lead to a significance increase in reported injuries, but tax decreases have no similar effect. Our difference-in-differences empirical strategy relies on staggered state-level corporate tax changes that exploits spatial discontinuity in treatment and control establishments located in contiguous border counties within the same firm. The results are strongest in industries with low union bargaining power, for firms with high marginal tax rates, poor safety culture scores, firms that barely meet or beat analysts’ earnings forecasts and firms that hire seasonal workers. Our results suggest that tax increases lead to real effects at the expense of employees, with no similar benefit accruing for tax cuts.

Keywords: workplace safety, employee welfare, corporate taxes, natural experiments

JEL Classification: G30; H25; H32; J28; K32

Suggested Citation:

Bradley, Daniel and Mao, Connie X. and Zhang, Chi, Do Corporate Taxes Affect Workplace Safety? (July 31, 2018). Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-036, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3223949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3223949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Djankov , T Ganser , C Mcliesh , R Ramalho , A Shleifer
The effect of corporate taxes on investment and entrepreneurship
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 2 , p. 31 - 64 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E F Fama , K R French
Taxes, financing decisions, and firm value
The Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 819 - 843 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R B Freeman , J L Medoff
What do unions do?
Indus. & Lab. Rel. Rev , volume 38 Posted: 1984
X Giroud , J Rauh
State taxation and the reallocation of business activity: Evidence from establishment-level data
Journal of Political Economy Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,150
RANK
164,343
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies