Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumer Responses to Corporate Tax Planning

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-19

41 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2018

H. Scott Asay

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: July 31, 2018

Abstract

Prior research examines practitioner, investor, and executive perceptions of corporate tax planning. However, little is known about how the typical U.S. consumer views corporate tax planning. We examine consumers’ perceptions of corporate tax planning using both survey and experimental methods. First, we survey U.S. consumers and find that while most express negative preferences for tax planning, they rank it at the bottom of purchase decision factors. Few consumers recall ever seeing a negative media article about taxes. Thus, while consumers state a preference against corporate tax planning, that preference is not particularly strong. However, for the minority of consumers who have read negative articles about a firm’s tax planning, a significant portion claim to have changed their purchasing behavior accordingly. Second, we use an experiment to investigate the consumer effects of tax planning, randomly treating consumers with exposure to news about tax planning and imposing real economic consequences on the participants. We find that consumers exposed to negative tax information about a firm are significantly less likely to prefer receiving a gift card from that firm, suggesting that there is an effect of tax planning on consumer preferences even in the presence of a real economic consequence.

Keywords: tax planning, consumer behavior, reputational costs of tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M38

Suggested Citation:

Asay, Hamilton Scott and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Thornock, Jacob and Wilde, Jaron H., Consumer Responses to Corporate Tax Planning (July 31, 2018). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3224670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3224670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Ang , A Chua , D Jiang
Is A Better than B? How Affect Influences the Marketing and Pricing of Financial Securities
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 66 , issue 6 , p. 40 - 54 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
T Besley , M Ghatak
Celebrating the 20th Anniversary of Bergstrom, Blume, and Varian's "On the Private Provision of Public Goods
Journal of Public Economics , volume 91 , issue 9 , p. 1645 - 1663 Posted: 2007
J K Burgoon , M Burgoon
Predictors of newspaper readership
Journalism Quarterly , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 596 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,029
RANK
105,927
6 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies