Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Relation Between Taxes and Stock Returns: The Critical Role of Choosing the Tax Variable

50 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2018

Zhan Gao

Lancaster University

Dan Givoly

Pennsylvania State University, Smeal College of Business

Rick Laux

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Date Written: June 15, 2018

Abstract

Firms invest non-trivial resources to avoid paying taxes. One of the presumed incentives for doing so is that it should increase the value of the firm. Surprisingly, a large number of studies find that tax expense is positively related to stock returns, suggesting that paying more taxes is good news. We re-evaluate this puzzling relation and provide new evidence that an increase in tax expense is indeed bad news. We begin by showing that the tax expense variable in a regression of returns on pretax income and tax expense captures the market’s pricing of book-tax differences, and importantly, the different tax variables used in the literature capture different components of book-tax differences. Using a regression that clearly distinguishes between temporary and permanent book-tax differences, we show that both temporary and permanent differences (after controlling for influential observations) are negatively related with contemporaneous returns. We also demonstrate that the positive association between contemporaneous returns and current and total expense documented in prior research is explained by influential observations and the intricacies of the accounting for temporary differences. Finally, we provide evidence that the positive relation between future returns and total tax expense, or tax expense momentum, can be attributed to the same market inefficiency captured by earnings momentum.

Keywords: Income Tax Expense, Book-Tax Differences, Stock Returns

JEL Classification: G12, G14, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Zhan and Givoly, Dan and Laux, Rick C., Assessing the Relation Between Taxes and Stock Returns: The Critical Role of Choosing the Tax Variable (June 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3225814 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3225814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Anderson
Modern Methods for Robust Regression Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Ayers , J Jiang , S Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Baik , K Kim , R Morton , Y Roh
Analysts' pre-tax income forecasts and tax expense anomaly
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , p. 559 - 595 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Bradford F. Hepfer
Are Book-Tax Differences Mispriced?
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 3 , p. 285 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
307,614
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies