Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Knowledge Diffusion Through Individual Auditor Network Ties: Evidence from China

57 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2018

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Kun Wang

Tsinghua University

Yanping Xu

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates whether network ties via sharing the same individual auditor influences the diffusion of tax avoidance knowledge. We find that firms with greater connection to low-tax firms through audit partners have lower effective tax rates (ETRs), consistent with tax avoidance knowledge being shared among firms through individual auditor network. The influence of audit network ties on tax avoidance at focal firms is stronger when partners’ tenure in low-tax firms is longer, and when partners have social connection with the top executives of focal firms. In addition, audit fees of focal firms with auditor network ties to low-tax firms are significantly higher if their executives are not socially connected to partners, suggesting that audit partners benefit from sharing the tax avoidance knowledge with clients without social ties.

Keywords: [Network ties, audit partner, tax avoidance, school ties separated]

JEL Classification: G32, H26, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Chee Yeow and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Wang, Kun and Xu, Yanping, Tax Knowledge Diffusion Through Individual Auditor Network Ties: Evidence from China (August 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3229564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Amiram , A Bauer , M Frank
Corporate tax avoidance and managerial incentives generated by shareholder dividend tax policy Posted: 2012
D Aobdia
Proprietary information spillovers and supplier choice: evidence from auditors
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1504 - 1539 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Aobdia , C Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
Crossref
L Argote , B Mcevily , R Reagans
Managing knowledge in organizations: An integrative framework and review of emerging themes
Management Science , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 582 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,583
RANK
163,928
8 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies