Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Are the Drivers of Tax Complexity for MNCs? Global Evidence

Intertax, Volume 46, Issue 8/9, pp. 654-675, 2018

22 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2018 Last revised: 13 Feb 2019

Thomas Hoppe

Paderborn University

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Susann Sturm

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 14, 2018

Abstract

All over the world, firms and governments are increasingly concerned about the rise in tax complexity. To manage it and develop effective simplification measures, detailed information on the current drivers of complexity is required. However, research on this topic is scarce. This is surprising as the latest developments–for example, those triggered by the BEPS project–have given rise to the conjecture that complexity drivers may have changed, thus questioning the findings of prior studies. In this article, we shed light on this issue and provide a global picture of the current drivers of tax complexity that multinational corporations face based on a survey of 221 highly experienced tax consultants from 108 countries. Our results show that prior complexity drivers of the tax code are still important, with details and changes of tax regulations being the two most important complexity drivers. We also find evidence for new important complexity drivers emerging from different areas of the tax framework, such as inconsistent decisions among tax officers (tax audits) or retroactively applied tax law amendments (tax enactment). Based on the tax consultants’ responses, we develop a concept of tax complexity that is characterized by two pillars, tax code and tax framework complexity and illustrates the various aspects that should be considered when assessing the complexity of a country’s tax system.

Keywords: Complexity Drivers, International Comparison, Survey, Tax Complexity, Tax Consultants

JEL Classification: H20, H25, C83, O57

Suggested Citation:

Hoppe, Thomas and Schanz, Deborah and Sturm, Susann and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, What Are the Drivers of Tax Complexity for MNCs? Global Evidence (August 14, 2018). Intertax, Volume 46, Issue 8/9, pp. 654-675, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,578
RANK
56,573
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies