Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing According to Value Creation

Tax Notes International, Vol. 90, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2018

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: June 18, 2018

Abstract

Currently at the forefront of internationals discourse is the notion that income should be taxed “where value is created.” Far from being a well-worn tax mantra, this paper shows that the intuitively appealing but deceptively misleading claim plays on approximately a century of political compromise, equating the goal of assigning a ‘primary’ right to tax to assigning an economically ‘correct’ jurisdiction to tax. In so doing, the claim camouflages as neutral and apolitical the highly political and distributive nature of the international tax system. The paper therefore observes that promoters of the value creation mantra are seeking to garner agreement on what is an essentially distributive exercise with likely significant disparate impact across countries. Demonstrating with the so-called “smile curve” supply chain valuation model, the paper explains why the logic of value creation will always assign virtually all of the credit for international cooperation to wealthy countries. The paper concludes that dealing with the distributional effects of the tax system has never been easy within countries and has been all but impossible multilaterally, but if the ultimate implication of taxing income in accordance with value creation is that tax revenues will be allocated much in the same way as they always have been, with the major gains going to the wealthiest countries, there should be no expectation of continued acceptance and equilibrium. Instead, the value creation mantra merely defers difficult questions to another day.

Keywords: Taxation, Tax Policy, Transfer Pricing, Value Creation, OECD, Smile Curve, Valuation, Allocation, Formulary Apportionment, Cooperation

JEL Classification: E62, F02, F23, F42, H20, H25, H87, K33, K34, D63, D78

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, Taxing According to Value Creation (June 18, 2018). Tax Notes International, Vol. 90, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
880
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,934
RANK
62,467
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies