Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Competition from S Corporations on the Organizational Form Choice of Rival C Corporations

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2018

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 19, 2018

Abstract

Subchapter C of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code levies an entity-level tax on corporate profits, whereas Subchapter S allows corporations meeting specific criteria to elect out of this tax. Despite these differences, C and S corporations regularly compete for customers and capital. We examine whether and the extent to which competition from S corporations influences the future organizational form choice of rival C corporations, and explore outcomes of this choice. Using data for 4,462 private U.S. commercial banks grouped by Metropolitan Statistical Area during 1997-2010, we find that greater competition from S corporation banks increases the likelihood that rival C corporation banks convert to Subchapter S status. We estimate that the aggregate first-year tax savings from S conversion exceed $372 million. Consistent with these savings being used to maintain comparative parity with rivals, we find that converting banks increase their interest rates on customer deposits and advertising intensity. Our findings provide insight into whether competition from tax-advantaged firms influences the organizational form choice of rival tax-disadvantaged firms.

Keywords: competition; organizational form; S corporation; taxes

JEL Classification: G21; H25; M40

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and Lisowsky, Petro and Mayberry, Michael, The Effects of Competition from S Corporations on the Organizational Form Choice of Rival C Corporations (July 19, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3239465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
119 References
ΔRev Change in revenue, defined as the percentage growth in gross interest income. Note: Unless otherwise indicated, data are obtained from Call Reports compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
M.-J Chen , D Miller
Competitive attack, retaliation and performance: An expectancy-valence framework
Strategic Management Journal , volume 15 , p. 85 - 102 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Q Cheng , J Lee , T Shevlin
Internal governance and real earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 4 , p. 1051 - 1085 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Chevalier
Do LBO supermarkets charge more? An empirical analysis of the effects of LBOs on supermarket pricing
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 1095 - 1112 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,479
RANK
411,653
2 Citations
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies