Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Competition and the Ethics of Burden Sharing

42:1 Fordham International Law Journal (2018), pp. 61-100

41 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2018 Last revised: 12 Mar 2021

Ivan Ozai

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 30, 2018

Abstract

Tax scholars have long suggested that tax competition should be mitigated because it reduces the collective revenues of countries, impairs their ability to redistribute wealth, and produces more regressive tax systems. Likewise, international organizations such as the OECD and the European Union increasingly move towards designing a global framework aimed at reducing tax avoidance and mitigating tax competition.

However, there is no comprehensive discussion on the costs that would arise from institutional reform designed to tackle tax competition. To the extent that any change in the international tax order will benefit some countries but also harm others, an ethical analysis of tax competition should include an examination of how to distribute the losses resulting from overall institutional reform. As international policy decisions tend to reproduce the present imbalance of the global power, the lack of an explicit discussion on how to share the costs arising from an institutional change might result in countries with less negotiating power bearing most of these costs.

This Article introduces the costs side of curbing tax competition and offers four normative principles that can help illuminate how the burdens of reforming the current international tax regime should be shared among countries.

Keywords: tax competition, cost-side analysis, burden sharing, fairness, developing countries, global justice, CBDR

JEL Classification: H26, H77, K34, F23, F42, F53, F55, H87, K33, K34, O19

Suggested Citation:

Ozai, Ivan, Tax Competition and the Ethics of Burden Sharing (August 30, 2018). 42:1 Fordham International Law Journal (2018), pp. 61-100, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Lynge Nielsen
Classifications of Countries Based on Their Level of Development: How It Is Done and How It Could Be Done 4 (Int'l Monetary Fund , p. 4 - 17 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Nielsen
, p. 10 - 11
Crossref
United , Human Development Programme , Development Report
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT FOR EVERYONE Posted: 2016
Crossref
Int&apos;l Monetary , Eligibility Fund , To , The Fund&apos;s Facilities For Concessional , Financing
Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,221
RANK
124,818
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies