Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Residence-Based Formulary Apportionment: (In-)Feasibility and Implications

Tax Law Review, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018

32 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2018

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Date Written: February 1, 2018

Abstract

I examine one way of taxing international corporate income that has not previously been studied, “residence-based formulary apportionment” or RBFA. I first offer a new taxonomy of different ways of taxing corporate income by reference to individual shareholders, and distinguish what I call the “shareholder attribution” approach from integration, pass-through, and other approaches. I then argue that although traditional international legal norms had led international tax design to avoid taxing foreign corporations “unconnected” with the taxing jurisdiction (e.g. foreign corporations earning only foreign income), these legal norms have gone through substantial transformations in recent years. The exercise of jurisdiction over foreign corporations has vastly expanded in the sphere of international taxation, as has the extent of mutual assistance in tax collection. Consequently, the choice between taxing foreign corporations and taxing shareholders should be made mainly on administrative (including enforceability) grounds other than international legal norms. Against this new landscape of international tax law, I compare the relative administrative advantages of two forms of tax design that implement exclusively-individual-shareholder-residence-based taxation of corporate income: the shareholder attribution approach, and RBFA. I conclude that while otherwise promising, RBFA is infeasible because it is incompatible with most corporations’ need to make pro rata distributions.

Keywords: international taxation, corporate taxation, destination-based taxation, formulary apportionment, shareholder taxation

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, Residence-Based Formulary Apportionment: (In-)Feasibility and Implications (February 1, 2018). Tax Law Review, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3242655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,286
RANK
349,147
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies