Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Noncompetes as Tax Evasion

96 Washington University Law Review 265 (2018)

71 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2018 Last revised: 27 Jun 2019

Rebecca Morrow

Wake Forest University - School of Law

Date Written: August 31, 2018

Abstract

Al Capone famously boasted of his criminal empire: “Some call it bootlegging. Some call it racketeering. I call it a business.” Treasury Agent Frank Wilson and Prosecutor George Johnson put Capone behind bars not by disputing his characterization and pursuing murder or assault or RICO charges, but by accepting it and enforcing its tax implications. Irrespective of their legality, Capone’s businesses were profitable, and Capone had not reported their profits for tax purposes. A simple application of bedrock tax law achieved what other legal routes failed to achieve and sent Capone to Alcatraz. The trick was to see the tax argument.

Policymakers should use a similar approach to curtail the excessive, exploitative, and anticompetitive use of employment noncompete agreements. Currently, nearly one in five (or thirty million) American workers is bound by an employment noncompete. Employers claim that they adequately compensate employees for noncompete restrictions with higher wages, bigger raises, and/or more generous bonuses. Policymakers scoff at this claim and use contract law to attack them. Unfortunately, employment noncompetes are like Al Capone in that they have flourished despite the law’s efforts to restrain them. Recently, the largest study of noncompetes in U.S. history paradoxically found that their prevalence is unaffected by their enforceability. In states like California that refuse to enforce employment noncompetes, they are as common as in states that uphold them. Contract law has proved ill-equipped to respond to the pervasive, expanding, and damaging use of noncompetes.

This Article is the first to shift the focus and to argue that employment noncompetes, as employers currently use them, constitute tax evasion and should be attacked as such. If employers pay employees for noncompetes through compensation, then by employers’ own account, this compensation is not purely an expense associated with immediate benefits; rather, it is an expenditure associated with future benefits — benefits that the employer will enjoy years after payment. Thus, the IRS should stop allowing employers to fully immediately deduct the compensation they pay to employees subject to noncompetes and instead should require that an adequate portion of total compensation be allocated to the noncompete and amortized over the restricted period, beginning when employment ends.

Keywords: tax, employment, noncompete, not to compete, capitalization, immediate deduction

JEL Classification: K34, K31, K12, J24, J42, J41

Suggested Citation:

Morrow, Rebecca, Noncompetes as Tax Evasion (August 31, 2018). 96 Washington University Law Review 265 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3242458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3242458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E G See , Orly Lobel
TALENT WANTS TO BE FREE: WHY WE SHOULD LEARN TO LOVE LEAKS, RAIDS, AND FREE RIDING 793-833 (2013) (describing the expansion of employment noncompetes and other employer tools for restricting employee job mobility)
Office Of See , Econ , U S Policy , Dep't Of , Non-Compete Treasury , Contracts
ECONOMIC EFFECTS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS , volume 6 Posted: 2016
Bishara Prescott , Starr
Id
, volume 395
Load more
1 Citations
Orly Lobel , Mark A. Lemley
Testifying in support of SB 906: AN ACT CONCERNING NON-COMPETES
San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 21-008 · 4 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 10 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,271
RANK
299,879
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies