Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Benefits from Hometown-Connected Politicians

The Accounting Review (forthcoming)

61 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2018 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Chunfang Cao

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU); Southwest University of Finance and Economics

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Changyuan Xia

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Insurance

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: July 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether politicians exhibit hometown favoritism in assigning preferential corporate income tax rates. We find that firms with hometown connections to incumbent provincial leaders experience favorable tax treatment. This effect is more pronounced when provincial leaders have strong hometown preferences and weaker when these leaders have a strong motivation for promotion, suggesting that social incentives are the primary drivers of the effect of hometown favoritism by politicians on corporate tax benefits. Moreover, this effect is intensified when senior management of firms has personal connections with the provincial leader. The mechanism test reveals that the provincial governments tend to qualify connected firms for preferential tax policies under their jurisdictions. Overall, our results suggest that hometown favoritism by politicians promotes tax benefits for business entities.

Keywords: provincial leaders; hometown favoritism; social identity; tax benefits

JEL Classification: H26; H71; M48

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Chunfang and Cao, Chunfang and Cheng, Agnes and Xia, Changyuan and Xie, Jing and Zeng, Cheng, Corporate Tax Benefits from Hometown-Connected Politicians (July 22, 2023). The Accounting Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3251384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3251384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity , volume 115 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
F Arendt , J Matthes
Nature documentaries, connectedness to nature, and pro-environmental behavior
Environmental Communication , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 453 - 472 Posted: 2016
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
908
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,090
RANK
59,898
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies