Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Non-Taxation and the Use of Hybrid Entities: An Alternative Approach in the New Era of BEPS (Introduction)

Kluwer Law International, Series on International Taxation Vol. 66, Alphen aan den Rijn, 2018, ISBN 978-90-411-9991-1

10 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2018

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: April 2018

Abstract

The topics of double non-taxation and hybrid entities have acquired a particular importance in a context where transformations within the tax world seem to be leading to an international commitment most materially manifested in the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project. In what is the first systematic in-depth critique of the BEPS Action Plan 2 with regard to hybrid entities, this timely book provides a critical review of the OECD’s approach and proposes a deeply informed alternative method based on the tax policy aims of simplicity, coherence and ease of administration.

The author analyses the interaction between the double non-taxation outcome and the use of hybrid entities in an approach not strictly linked to any specific tax jurisdiction. To this end, the analysis includes case studies and examples from a range of jurisdictions emphasizing the international tax context, including the application of tax treaties.

Detailed comparisons between the author’s proposal and other existing rules elucidate common points and deviations.

If merely for its unparalleled clarification of the issues, this book will prove of immeasurable value to practitioners, tax authorities, policymakers and academics concerned with international tax law. Beyond that, as an authoritative guide that promises to reorient the discussion to what really matters in the debate regarding double non-taxation and hybrid entities, this analysis elaborates solutions applicable to a generality of cases worldwide, and thus hugely promotes the urgent quest for alternatives solutions.

Keywords: Hybrid Entities, Double Non-Taxation, BEPS Action 2, Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Tax Transparent Entities

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, Double Non-Taxation and the Use of Hybrid Entities: An Alternative Approach in the New Era of BEPS (Introduction) (April 2018). Kluwer Law International, Series on International Taxation Vol. 66, Alphen aan den Rijn, 2018, ISBN 978-90-411-9991-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3253376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,974
RANK
36,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies