Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Reduce the Tax Bill of a Multinational Technology Company?

13 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2018

Dimitrios V. Siskos

Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University; Thinking Finance

Date Written: September 25, 2018

Abstract

It is said that nothing in this world is certain except for death and taxes. For those with clever accountants, however, the latter can be kept to a minimum. Particularly, companies seek to minimize their tax liability through "tax planning", adopting deductions, rebates, exemptions and other “legal” tools that the domestic tax system provides to them. However, while tax planning is considered to be quite logical in the terms of making profit, there is a grey area between this and "tax avoidance”. This paper suggests a legitimate tax plan for a multinational technology company that minimizes its tax obligations1, without being inconsistent with the policies of Corporate Social Responsibility1 (CSR) and the desire for profit maximization by the shareholders. As such, it is proposed that a multinational company should exploit tax havens’ opportunity to relocate the Intellectual Property (IP) ownership but ensuring, in the same time, that it shares its gross profit between the tax haven and the source country paying 13% of the gross profit to the relevant resident.

Keywords: Tax Plan, Tax Haven, Offshore, Intellectual Property, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

V. Siskos, Dimitrios, How to Reduce the Tax Bill of a Multinational Technology Company? (September 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3254816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3254816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodeme
International Taxation and Multinational Firm Location Decisions Posted: 2008
Crossref
T Baskaran , F Lopes
Center for European, Governance and Economic Development Research Discussion Papers 163 Posted: 2013
I A Derun
Problems in intellectual capital estimation and its reflection in financial statements
Actual Problems of Economics , volume 144 , issue 6 Posted: 2013
D Dudaș
Forms of double taxation
Business Source Complete, EBSCO host , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 66 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
636,031
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies