Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Tax Knowledge and Skills: What Are the Graduate Skills Required by Small to Medium Accounting Firms

13(1) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 152-186

Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 18-28

36 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2018 Last revised: 29 Nov 2018

Sharon Hayes

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Deborah Delaney

Griffith University

Date Written: September 27, 2018

Abstract

Small and medium accounting (SMA) firms can account for approximately 40% of graduate recruitment in Australia. Does the context of obtaining employment with a SMA firm require graduates to have certain knowledge and skills? This article reports the findings of a study into the technical and generic skills required by graduates commencing employment within an Australian SMA firm. The findings suggest that together with financial statement and reporting, tax knowledge is highly valued for graduates to a SMA firm. In terms of tax, this also includes the ability to use tax software. Also, the generic skills of communication, team work and ethics are highly regarded. This raises the question as to whether current university degrees are providing adequate technical and generic skill development for those graduates seeking employment with a SMA firm.

Keywords: accounting, graduates, technical skills; generic skills; small to medium accounting; employment; work-ready

JEL Classification: K34, I22, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, Sharon and Freudenberg, Brett and Delaney, Deborah, Role of Tax Knowledge and Skills: What Are the Graduate Skills Required by Small to Medium Accounting Firms (September 27, 2018). 13(1) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 152-186 , Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 18-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Brett Freudenberg , Mark Brimble , Craig Cameron
WIL and Generic Skill Development: The Development of Business Students' Generic Skills through Work-Integrated Learning
AsiaPacific Journal of Cooperative Education , volume 12 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Denise Jackson
The Contribution of Work-Integrated Learning to Undergraduate Employability Skill Outcomes
Asia-Pacific Journal of Cooperative Education , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Riccardo Natoli , Beverley Jackling , Friederika Kaider , Colin Clark
Mapping WIL Activities in the Curriculum to Develop Graduate Capabilities: A Case Study in Accounting
Asia-Pacific Journal of Cooperative Education , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Nava Subramaniam , Brett Freudenberg
Preparing Accounting Students for Success in the Professional Environment: Enhancing Self-efficacy through a Work Integrated Learning Programme
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,239
RANK
209,542
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies