Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
S-Corporation Cash-Out Break-Ups and Code Sec. 1031 Exchanges

Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 21, p. 21, 2018

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 570

6 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2018

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: October 3, 2018

Abstract

Many legacy S-Corporations (those with real property purchased before the advent of LLCs) still own real property with the prospect of selling or transferring it as part of a generational change in ownership. With such dispositions, the owners may have different objectives for the use of the property’s sale proceeds and may wish to part ways. Many tax advisors are familiar with techniques that apply to similar types of break-ups of partnerships and LLCs, which allow some parties to exchange property tax free under Code Sec. 1031 while others cash out. S-Corporation break-ups are taxed differently from partnership and LLC break-ups, so the same types of transactions that are tax-free in the partnership or LLC context could trigger gain recognition for members of S-Corporations. This article presents the rules governing S-Corporation break-ups and illustrates how some cash-out break-ups of S-Corporations can trigger gain recognition for all members, including those who wish to do a Code Sec. 1031 exchange with their shares of the sale proceeds. The article also identifies some planning techniques that might be available in some situations to help mitigate the effects of the taxable S-Corporation break-up.

Keywords: section 1031, S-corporations, S-corporation divisions, nonrecognition, gain deferral, drop-and-swap, swap-and-drop

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., S-Corporation Cash-Out Break-Ups and Code Sec. 1031 Exchanges (October 3, 2018). Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 21, p. 21, 2018, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 570, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
See Code Sec
Crossref
See Code Sec. 311(b)
See Code Sec , volume 1366 , issue 1
Crossref
See Code Sec
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,820
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,821
RANK
21,579
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies