Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Dilution as Contribution-Default Remedy in LLCs and Partnerships

Nottingham Insolvency & Business Law e-Journal, Vol. 6, p. 180, 2018

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 572

22 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2018

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Douglas L. Longhofer

University of Central Missouri

Date Written: October 9, 2018

Abstract

LLC and partnership agreements often provide that members will make additional contributions according to a pre-determined schedule or in response to capital calls. Agreements also typically include contribution-default remedies. Interest dilution is a common type of contribution-default remedy. This article identifies various types of interest-dilution contribution-default remedies and illustrates how they can differently affect the economic interests of both defaulting and contributing members based upon the denominator used to compute the effect of default and contribution. The article informs the drafting process, illustrates the economic consequences of interest dilution, and lays the foundation for examining the tax and other consequences of such remedies.

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Longhofer, Douglas L., Interest Dilution as Contribution-Default Remedy in LLCs and Partnerships (October 9, 2018). Nottingham Insolvency & Business Law e-Journal, Vol. 6, p. 180, 2018, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3263548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,089
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,124
RANK
46,389
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies