Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competitive Externalities of Tax Cuts

65 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2018 Last revised: 30 Aug 2021

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Hansol Jang

National University of Singapore

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 30, 2021

Abstract

We examine how tax cuts that benefit some firms are related to the economic performance of their direct competitors. Consistent with tax cuts decreasing the cost of initiating competitive strategies, we find that a decrease in the tax burden for only a specific group of firms in the U.S. economy (i.e., “rivals”) has a negative economic effect on the performance of its direct competitors not directly exposed to the same tax cut (“competitors”). This negative externality is stronger when the relatively higher-taxed competitors (1) are financially constrained, (2) operate in more competitive markets, (3) have similar products to their lower-taxed rivals, (4) face rivals that retain more of their cash tax savings due to lower dividends and share repurchases, and (5) face lower-taxed, but financially constrained, rivals. We also find that shareholders and lenders price the negative externality manifested in these competitors’ economic performance.

Keywords: American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), Product Market, Competition, Repatriation

JEL Classification: D40, H23, H25, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and Jang, Hansol and Lisowsky, Petro, Competitive Externalities of Tax Cuts (August 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3265532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S M.; L F Albring , J Mills; And K , Newberry
Do debt constraints influence firms' sensitivity to a temporary tax holiday on repatriation?
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
H ; M Almeida , S Campello; And M , Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
A J Auerbach
Wealth maximization and the cost of capital
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , p. 433 - 446 Posted: 1979
J Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: a primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,244
RANK
137,627
26 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies