Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Panama Really Your Tax Haven? Secrecy Jurisdictions and the Countries They Harm

Jansky P., Meinzer M. and Palansky M. (2018): "Is Panama Really Your Tax Haven? Secrecy Jurisdictions and the Countries They Harm" IES Working Papers 23/2018. IES FSV. Charles University.

29 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018

Petr Jansky

Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Social Sciences, Institute of Economic Studies

Markus Meinzer

Tax Justice Network

Miroslav Palanský

Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Social Sciences, Institute of Economic Studies, Students; Tax Justice Network

Date Written: October 16, 2018

Abstract

Secrecy jurisdictions provide services that enable the residents of other countries to escape the laws and regulations of their home economies, evade tax, or hide their legally or illegally obtained assets. Recent offshore leaks offer only a limited and biased view of the world of financial secrecy. In this paper we quantify which secrecy jurisdictions provide secrecy to which countries and assess how successful countries are in targeting these jurisdictions with their policies. To that objective we develop the Bilateral Financial Secrecy Index (BFSI) and estimate it for 86 countries by quantifying the financial secrecy supplied to them by up to 100 secrecy jurisdictions. We then evaluate two major recent policy efforts by comparing them with the results of the BFSI. First, we focus on the blacklisting process of the European Commission and find that most of the important secrecy jurisdictions for EU member states have been identified by the lists. Second, we link the results to data on active bilateral automatic information exchange treaties to assess how well-aimed are the policymakers’ limited resources. We argue that while low-secrecy jurisdictions’ gains are maximized if a large share of received secrecy is covered by automatic information exchange, tax havens aim not to activate these relationships with countries to which they supply secrecy. Our results show that so far, some major secrecy jurisdictions successfully keep their most prominent relationships uncovered by automatic information exchange, and activating these relationships may thus be an effective tool to curb secrecy.

Keywords: tax havens, secrecy jurisdictions, financial secrecy, financial transparency, offshore finance, automatic exchange of information, global development

JEL Classification: F36, F63, F65, H26, O16

Suggested Citation:

Jansky, Petr and Meinzer, Markus and Palanský, Miroslav, Is Panama Really Your Tax Haven? Secrecy Jurisdictions and the Countries They Harm (October 16, 2018). Jansky P., Meinzer M. and Palansky M. (2018): "Is Panama Really Your Tax Haven? Secrecy Jurisdictions and the Countries They Harm" IES Working Papers 23/2018. IES FSV. Charles University., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3267366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
11 Citations
Lukas Hakelberg , Thomas Rixen
Is neoliberalism still spreading? The impact of international cooperation on capital taxation
Review of International Political Economy , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1142 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sheila Killian , Philip O'Regan , Ruth Lynch , Martin Laheen , Dionysios Karavidas
Regulating havens: The role of hard and soft governance of tax experts in conditions of secrecy and low regulation
Regulation & Governance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 722 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Ľuboš Elexa , Michal Ištok , Lea Šlampiaková
DO LINKS TO TAX HAVENS AFFECT COMPANIES’ FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE? THE CASE OF SLOVAKIA
E+M Ekonomie a Management , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 60 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Aanor Roland , Vincent Arel-Bundock , Loriana Crasnic , I. D. J. Römgens (Indra)
What do citizens in tax havens think? The EU blacklist and public opinion in Switzerland
Journal of European Integration , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,320
RANK
236,750
11 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies