Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The End of Eternity: Anomalies in Transition to Territoriality

Tax Notes, Vol. 159, No. 5, 2018

20 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018 Last revised: 6 Dec 2018

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Joshua Rabinovits

Roberts & Holland LLP

Date Written: April 30, 2018

Abstract

The law formerly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 imposed a U.S. tax on the undistributed foreign earnings of certain foreign corporations. This tax on deemed repatriation income, under new section 965 of the Code, has some broad and surprising effects, particularly for individual shareholders of foreign corporations.

This Special Report in Tax Notes discusses some issues under section 965, such as the shareholders and corporations affected by the tax, the amount of the section 965(c) deduction in 2017 and 2018, and the various elections to defer the tax.

Keywords: section 965, deemed repatriation

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin and Rabinovits, Joshua, The End of Eternity: Anomalies in Transition to Territoriality (April 30, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 159, No. 5, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
225,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies