Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Lenders Price Tax Risk in the Debt Contract?

47 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2018

Zawadi Lemayian

Washington University in St. Louis

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Arpita Shroff

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the relation between tax risk and the cost of private debt. Tax risk can lead to significant negative outcomes, including penalties, interest and additional tax payments, which in turn can increase the uncertainty of future cash flows and make it costlier for a firm to borrow. Consistent with our hypothesis, we find a significant, positive relation between the cost of borrowing and tax risk. In terms of economic significance, a one percent increase in our tax risk measure implies an interest rate increase of 4.04 basis points. We also find that lenders are more likely to require collateral, include more covenants, and issue smaller loans when borrowers have higher tax risk.

Keywords: tax risk, cost of bank loans

JEL Classification: G31, G32, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lemayian, Zawadi and Lobo, Gerald J. and Shroff, Arpita, Do Lenders Price Tax Risk in the Debt Contract? (April 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3268925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3268925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of booktax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Does tax aggressiveness reduce corporate transparency? Available at SSRN 1792783 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
390,908
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies