Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tale of Two Forecasts: An Analysis of Mandatory and Voluntary Effective Tax Rate Forecasts

64 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018 Last revised: 2 Dec 2020

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Sabrina Chi

CSU Fullerton

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

Disclosure theory predicts that the likelihood of voluntary disclosure increases with the level of noise in mandatory disclosure. We test this prediction by exploiting a unique setting where firms provide two forecasts of the same underlying metric – annual effective tax rates (ETRs). We find that managers are more likely to issue voluntary ETR forecasts when mandatory ETR forecasts contain more noise due to tax complexity. This finding suggests that managers resort to voluntary disclosure when mandatory disclosure constrains their ability to convey private information. Using analysts’ ETR forecast revisions to assess the informativeness of voluntary and mandatory ETR forecasts, we find that both forecasts are incrementally informative. However, analysts place a greater weight on voluntary ETR forecasts compared to mandatory ETR forecasts, especially when voluntary ETR forecasts are non-GAAP based and when discrete items are present. Overall, our study provides context specific evidence on the relation between voluntary and mandatory forward-looking disclosures, and on sophisticated financial statement users’ responses to both forms of disclosures.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, mandatory disclosure, ETR forecast

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Novia (Xi) and Chi, Sabrina and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., A Tale of Two Forecasts: An Analysis of Mandatory and Voluntary Effective Tax Rate Forecasts (November 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3271837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3271837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 76 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Crossref
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,249
RANK
96,735
4 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies