Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sample Statistics as Convincing Evidence: A Tax Fraud Case

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2018/12

32 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2018

Jostein Lillestol

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Date Written: September 25, 2018

Abstract

This report deals with the analysis of data used by tax officers to support their claim of tax fraud at a pizzeria. The possibilities of embezzlement under study are overreporting of take-away sales and underreporting of cash payments. Several modelling approaches are explored, ranging from simple well-known methods to presumably more precise tools. More specifically, we contrast common methods based on normal assumptions and models based on Gamma-assumptions. For the latter, both maximum likelihood and Bayesian approaches are covered. Several criteria for the choice of method in practice are discussed, among them, how easy the method is to understand, justify and communicate to the parties. Some dilemmas present itself: the choice of statistical method, its role in building the evidence, the choice of risk factor, the application of legal principles like “clear and convincing evidence” and “beyond reasonable doubt”. The insights gained may be useful for both tax officers and defenders of the taxpayer, as well as for expert witnesses.

Keywords: Gamma-Beta analysis, Bayesian Gamma-analysis, Risk analysis

JEL Classification: C00, C10, C11, C13

Suggested Citation:

Lillestol, Jostein, Sample Statistics as Convincing Evidence: A Tax Fraud Case (September 25, 2018). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2018/12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3272185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3272185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
C Aitken , P Roberts , G Jackson
Fundamentals of Probability and Statistical Evidence in Criminal Proceedings. Guidance for Judges, Lawyers, Forensic Scientists and Expert Witnesses, Practitioners Guide No 1. Prepared under the auspices of Royal Statistical Society's Working Group on Statistics and the Law Posted: 2010
Crossref
J C Bright , J B Kadane , D S Nagin
Statistical Sampling in Tax Audits , volume 13 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Coic &amp; Rss
Statistics and Probability for Advocates: Understanding the Use of Statistical Evidence in Courts and Tribunals. The Council of Inns of Court (COIC) in cooperation with Posted: 2017
M H Degroot , S E Fienberg , Kadane
Statistics and the Law Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
778,997
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies