Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collecting the Rent: The Global Battle to Capture MNE Profits

Tax Law Review, Forthcoming

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-38

Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 527

50 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2018 Last revised: 28 Nov 2018

Joseph Bankman

Stanford Law School

Mitchell Kane

New York University School of Law

Alan Sykes

Stanford University - Law School

Date Written: October 25, 2018

Abstract

Multinational enterprises (MNEs) often earn substantial profits, or "economic rents." Often, these MNEs are domiciled in the United States, and the rents derive from ownership of intellectual property. These MNEs have structured their affairs to pay little taxes to countries outside the United States or otherwise to share their rents in these countries. Apple and Microsoft, for example, may earn roughly half their profits outside the United States but do not pay significant amounts of taxes to any foreign country.

The European Union and other countries have responded to this state of affairs with new tax legislation, antitrust actions, and other policies that have the effect of, and perhaps the intention of, capturing a greater share of MNE rents for their treasuries or citizens. To date, these policies are discussed in separate literatures focused on a particular policy domain (tax, antitrust, and so on). This paper offers the first unified or comparative analysis of the issue. We examine the various policy levers which a nation may employ to claw rents away from a non-resident MNE. We consider tax, anti-trust policy, state-owned enterprises, price regulation, tariffs and other types of trade policies. We discuss the relative merits of each policy, including their economic welfare consequences (nationally and globally) and their effects on the distribution of rents. We also consider the circumstances in which one policy is likely to be superior to others from a national or global perspective.

Keywords: international tax, antirust, trade, multinational enterprises

Suggested Citation:

Bankman, Joseph and Kane, Mitchell and Sykes, Alan, Collecting the Rent: The Global Battle to Capture MNE Profits (October 25, 2018). Tax Law Review, Forthcoming, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 18-38, Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 527, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Relatedly
under international and domestic antidumping law, firms can be given the opportunity to raise their prices to avoid antidumping penalties
See Jackson
Davel & Sykes, supra at , p. 836 - 874
Id
, p. 901 - 906
See Gatt Article , V I
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
763
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,588
RANK
75,728
3 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies