Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Treaty Aspects of Nonincome Taxes: The Importance of Residence

71 Tax Law Review 583 (Spring 2018)

41 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2018

Fadi Shaheen

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - School of Law, Newark

Date Written: October 2017

Abstract

This article considers the residence-related income tax treaty aspects of nonincome taxes such as the retail sales tax, the value added tax, the flat tax, the X tax, the destination-based cash flow tax, and certain turnover taxes, and discusses the related treaty aspects of the concepts of tax, tax on income, comprehensive taxation, and nondiscrimination. The focus here is on the underappreciated conceptual and technical importance of tax residence in thinking about and applying tax treaties in the context of nonincome taxes. The article makes two main residence-related points. First, that the question of residence is a critical treaty gateway issue—that is, if the United States were to replace the existing income tax with a noncovered, nonincome tax, the affected U.S. taxpayers would cease to be U.S. residents for treaty purposes and as such would no longer be entitled to claim benefits under existing income tax treaties. This residence problem could become even more consequential if the nonincome tax in question was a tax covered by the treaty. Second, the article emphasizes the residence-relevance criterion for evaluating the identity or substantial similarity of new taxes to existing taxes for determining whether a new tax was covered by a treaty.

Keywords: Tax, treaty, residence, nonincome tax, retail sales tax, value added tax (VAT), flat tax, X tax, destination-based cash flow tax (DBCFT), turnover tax, tax on income, comprehensive taxation, nondiscrimination

JEL Classification: H20, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shaheen, Fadi, Income Tax Treaty Aspects of Nonincome Taxes: The Importance of Residence (October 2017). 71 Tax Law Review 583 (Spring 2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Grubert &amp; Newlon
Stephen E. Shay , Victoria Summers
Selected International Aspects of Fundamental Tax Reform Proposals
51 U. Miami L. Rev. 1029 (1997) Pages: 50 Posted: 11 Apr 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Weisbach
101 The border adjustment in the business-to-business imports context can be implemented in two economically equivalent methods: (1) taxing imports and allowing the buyer to deduct the cost of the import, or (2) totally ignoring both sides of the transaction
See Collier , &amp; Devereux
, volume 6 , p. 19 - 24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
253,661
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies