Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content from Releases of the Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3277669

Posted: 9 Dec 2018

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Anthony Ribal

FTI Consulting, Inc. - FTI Consulting, Baltimore

Date Written: November 2, 2018

Abstract

We examine the extent to which deferred tax valuation allowance (VA) releases - a discretionary accounting judgment that increases net income based on estimated future tax benefit realizations- are predictive of future earnings. We first find that profitable firms releasing at least a portion of a full VA have higher subsequent earnings relative to a control group that maintains a full VA. These results vary depending on firms’ cumulative profitability in recent years and suggest some firms appear to rely on historical fact patterns rather than estimations of future profitability to justify the VA release. In additional analysis, we observe that among firms lacking cumulative profits in recent years, VA releasers generate higher subsequent abnormal returns than VA maintainers, suggesting investors are not timely responding to the information content from the VA release decision.

Keywords: valuation allowance, future earnings, buy-hold abnormal returns

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew and Ribal, Anthony, The Information Content from Releases of the Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance (November 2, 2018). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3277669, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277669
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies