Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incentive Heterogeneity Between Shareholders, Voting Rights Power, and Capital Structure

51 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2018

Michael Babbel

ESCP Europe

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Jochen Hundsdoerfer

Free University of Berlin (FUB); Norwegian Center for Taxation; ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Date Written: September 17, 2018

Abstract

Using a sample of public European firms and a multitude of shifts in cross-country taxation data, we examine the influence of individual shareholders’ tax incentives on capital structure. We find that the largest shareholder’s tax incentive for debt positively influences leverage. We also find that the second-largest shareholder’s tax incentive for debt is incrementally relevant for leverage. However, tax incentive heterogeneity between shareholders reduces the positive influence of the largest shareholder’s tax incentive on leverage. Finally, we document that the relevance of the largest shareholder’s tax incentive for capital structure decisions is increasing in the level of voting rights power.

Keywords: capital structure, leverage, tax incentive, heterogeneity, voting rights power

JEL Classification: G32, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Babbel, Michael and Pronobis, Paul and Hundsdoerfer, Jochen, Tax Incentive Heterogeneity Between Shareholders, Voting Rights Power, and Capital Structure (September 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3277420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A J Auerbach
Wealth maximization and the cost of capital
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 93 , p. 433 - 446 Posted: 1979
Crossref
M Becht , C Mayer
Corporate Control in Europe
Revue d'économie politique , volume 112 , p. 471 - 498 Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Bell , T Jenkinson
New Evidence of the Impact of Dividend Taxation and on the Identity of the Marginal Investor , volume 57 , p. 1321 - 1346 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bennedsen , D Wolfenzon
The Balance of Power in Closely Held Corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , p. 113 - 139 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
RANK
658,539
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies