Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Reform of Foreign Source Income

"The Tax Specialist", vol. 22, 2018, pp. 2-14.

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 18/71

28 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2018

Graeme S. Cooper

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: November 5, 2018

Abstract

Recently enacted measures which change the tax treatment of foreign source income seem to have been largely overlooked. They deserve greater attention because they produce curious and potentially illogical outcomes for many classes of Australian taxpayers. They are the unpublicised consequences of choices made in the design of Australia’s anti-hybrid rules, rules which were intended to curb the aggressive tax avoidance practices of multinational enterprises. Instead, they extend to many types of resident taxpayers earning some classes of foreign source income. This article demonstrates how entirely innocuous situations, which display no element of cross-border disagreement between countries, can be affected by these rules and how the impacts can be quite unexpected.

Keywords: income tax, international tax, OECD BEPS Project, tax avoidance, hybrid entities

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Graeme S., The Curious Reform of Foreign Source Income (November 5, 2018). "The Tax Specialist", vol. 22, 2018, pp. 2-14., Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 18/71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3279140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,362
RANK
524,740
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies