Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform Made Me Do It!

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-36

57 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2018

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 5, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines corporations’ actions, and statements about actions, following the tax law change known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Specifically, we examine four different outcomes — bonuses (or other actions that benefit workers), announcements of new investments, share repurchases, and dividend announcements. We find that 4% of public firms in our sample announced in Q1 2018 they would pay some portion of their tax savings toward workers. In terms of investment, we find that 22% of the S&P 500 firms in our sample mentioned in earnings conference calls that they would increase investment because of the TCJA. We find a general increase in share repurchases following the passage of the TCJA, but the increase is extremely concentrated in a small number of firms. We find only nine firms that announced a new share repurchase plan explicitly attributed the new plan to the TCJA. In regression analysis, we find that both political and economic variables explain TCJA-linked announcements. The analysis suggests that firms with greater expected tax savings from the TCJA are those most likely to announce payments to workers and plans to increase investment. Firms with a Political Action Committee that donates more to Republican candidates are also more likely to announce benefits to employees.

Keywords: tax reform, corporate taxes

JEL Classification: H25, H30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Slemrod, Joel B., Tax Reform Made Me Do It! (November 5, 2018). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3279253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3279253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The Fair Wage-Effort Hypothesis and Unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
Crossref
W Arulampalam , M P Devereux , G Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A J Auerbach , Forthcoming
Measuring the Impact of Corporate Tax Cuts
Journal of Economic Perspectives
Crossref
C Azémar , R G Hubbard
Country Characteristics and the Incidence of Capital Income Taxation on Wages: An Empirical Assessment
Canadian Journal of Economics/Revue canadienne d'économique , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 1762 - 1802 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,056
RANK
147,906
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies