Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negotiated Tax Havens

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3280683

52 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2018 Last revised: 17 Feb 2021

Kevin Markle

Michigan State University

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: February 16, 2021

Abstract

Tax subsidies alter the distribution of tax burdens in ways that blur the ability of researchers and policymakers to measure tax incentives at the country level, to clearly define a tax haven, and to understand firm-level tax avoidance. In the European Union (EU), control of “state aid” restricts tax subsidy competition while permitting tax rate competition; there is no U.S. corollary. The EU’s unique regulatory environment creates novel data for examining the determinants and effects of tax subsidies granted on a discriminatory basis. We find that better-governed countries are more likely to grant subsidies and to direct larger amounts of this “tax aid” toward mobile firms (i.e., firms that are part of a multinational corporation). Despite the EU regulations, we find that mobile firms enjoy significantly larger ETR reductions from tax aid than do immobile firms, even in countries already offering low tax rates. Our findings are important in light of ongoing debates about the appropriate role of preferential tax regimes in global tax competition.

Keywords: tax policy, state aid, tax competition, preferential tax regimes, tax subsidies

JEL Classification: H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Markle, Kevin and Robinson, Leslie, Negotiated Tax Havens (February 16, 2021). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3280683, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3280683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3280683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,570
RANK
229,292
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies