Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Prefilled Tax Returns on Taxpayer Compliance

57 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2018 Last revised: 9 Aug 2019

Marcus Doxey

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

James Lawson

Bucknell University

Shane Stinson

University of Alabama

Date Written: July 2019

Abstract

This study uses two online experiments to examine the potential consequences of a recent U.S. Senate proposal to prefill federal income tax returns on behalf of individuals. Consistent with omission theory, we find that prefilled returns lower compliance compared to self-completed returns when the prefilled returns do not estimate undocumented sources of income (e.g., cash tips). However, our results show that including estimates of undocumented income increases taxpayer compliance relative to self-completed returns. We also find evidence suggesting that prefilled returns eliminate the often-replicated differences in reporting behavior between taxpayers in refund versus tax due settlement positions, suggesting that prefilled returns changed individuals’ reference points. These findings suggest the implementation of a prefilled return policy could have economically important effects on taxpayer decisions.

Keywords: prefilled tax returns; taxpayer compliance; prospect theory; omission theory

Suggested Citation:

Doxey, Marcus M and Lawson, James and Stinson, Shane, The Effects of Prefilled Tax Returns on Taxpayer Compliance (July 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3285519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3285519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C J Anderson
The psychology of doing nothing: forms of decision avoidance result from reason and emotion
Psychological Bulletin , volume 129 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 167 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,592
RANK
165,258
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies