Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability and Taxation: Experimental Evidence

NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper

87 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2018

Ingrid Hoem Sjursen

Chr. Michelsen Institute (CMI)

Date Written: November 21, 2018

Abstract

The Rentier State Hypothesis states that taxation promotes government accountability. The argument is that citizens demand more accountability for spending of tax revenue than for spending of windfall revenue (e.g., natural resource revenue). This paper presents evidence from a between-subject experiment that tests the effect of taxation on demand for accountability and the underlying mechanisms explaining this effect. The design focuses on two main features that distinguish tax from windfall revenue: Tax revenue is produced by citizens' work and has been in their possession before being collected as tax. These features are theorized to increase the salience of fairness considerations in public service provision, and this increased salience of fairness is in turn hypothesized to increase demand for accountability. The main finding is that taxation causes a higher demand for accountability when both features of taxation are present. This result is evidence in support of the Rentier State Hypothesis.

Keywords: Taxation, experiment, fairness, behavioral economics, accountability

JEL Classification: H27, C91, D63, D90

Suggested Citation:

Hoem Sjursen, Ingrid, Accountability and Taxation: Experimental Evidence (November 21, 2018). NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3288516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3288516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Agnar January , Sandmo
Should the marginal tax rate be negative? Ragnar Frisch on the socially optimal amount of work
Mai April , Frode Nguyen-Ones , Steen
Measuring Market Power in Gasoline Retailing: A Market-or Station Phenomenon?
Chang Koo April , Trond Chi , Olsen
Björn April , Alexander W Bartling , Mathias Cappelen , Erik Ø Ekström , Bertil Sørensen , Tungodden
Load more
8 Citations
Jonathan L Weigel
The Participation Dividend of Taxation: How Citizens in Congo Engage More with the State When it Tries to Tax Them*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , issue 4 , p. 1849 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Frode Steen , Richard Friberg , Simen Ulsaker
Hump-shaped Cross-price Effects and the Extensive Margin in Cross-border Shopping
NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper · 45 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2018 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Liam Brunt , Antonio Fidalgo
Feeding the People: Grain Yields and Agricultural Expansion in Qing China
NHH Dept. of Economics Discussion Paper · 26 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 11 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 77
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Jaume , Alexander Willén
Oh Mother: The Neglected Impact of School Disruptions
60 Pages · Posted: 3 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 180
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
RANK
467,335
8 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies