Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Intellectual Property Under Domestic Law and Tax Treaties: Australia

'Australia' in Guglielmo Maisto (ed.), "Taxation of Intellectual Property under Domestic Law, EU Law and Tax Treaties", IBFD: Amsterdam, 2018.

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 18/75

24 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2018

Celeste Black

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: November 22, 2018

Abstract

This chapter examines the operation of Australia’s domestic tax law and tax treaties in relation to transactions involving intellectual property (IP). It reviews the legal protections provided under Australia’s general law in relation to copyright, patents, trademarks and confidential information and considers the legal distinction between alienation of IP and granting the right to use IP (licencing). The application of domestic tax laws (income tax, depreciation rules and capital gains tax) to disposals and licencing transactions involving IP is considered before moving to cross-border transactions and the operation of royalty withholding tax. Australia’s tax treaty practice is then examined, specifically Article 12 (royalties) and the interaction with Article 7 (business profits). Special issues considered include: software, know how, equipment leasing, technical services and distinguishing royalties from payments for services.

Keywords: taxation law, royalties, intellectual property, withholding tax, tax treaties, Article 12, OECD Model, copyright, patent, equipment leasing, software

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34, K33, K11

Suggested Citation:

Black, Celeste, Taxation of Intellectual Property Under Domestic Law and Tax Treaties: Australia (November 22, 2018). 'Australia' in Guglielmo Maisto (ed.), "Taxation of Intellectual Property under Domestic Law, EU Law and Tax Treaties", IBFD: Amsterdam, 2018., Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 18/75, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3288907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Ato
Taxation Ruling 98/21, Income tax: withholding tax implications of cross border leasing arrangements
with reference to para. 9 OECD Model , volume 12 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Ato
Crossref
Sec , Itaa
Posted: 1936
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,930
RANK
126,595
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies