Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxation and the International Challenge

Nordic Tax Journal, Issue 2, pp. 113-131, 2014, DOI: 10.1515/ntaxj-2014-0021

19 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018 Last revised: 10 Jan 2019

Peter Koerver Schmidt

Copenhagen Business School - CBS Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

It is argued that at the higher degree of economic integration across borders and the international trend towards a reduction of corporate income tax rates have had a significant impact on the Danish corporate tax regime in recent years. Accordingly, during the last ten years the Danish statutory corporate tax rate has been lowered further, while several government actions at the same time have been taken in order to combat international tax avoidance and evasion. As a result, new anti-avoidance provisions have been introduced and some of the older anti-avoidance provisions have been tightened in order to prevent base erosion and profit shifting. Thus, to some extent Denmark has already tried to address a number of the key pressure areas mentioned in the recently published OECD BEPS report, such as international mismatches in entity and instrument characterization, the tax treatment of related party debt financing, transfer pricing and the effectiveness of anti-avoidance measures. However, the article concludes that these anti-avoidance provisions often suffer from being quite complex, very broad in scope and open to criticism from an EU law perspective.

Keywords: Danish corporate taxation, base erosion and profit shifting, antiavoidance measures, EU law

Suggested Citation:

Koerver Schmidt, Peter, Corporate Taxation and the International Challenge (2014). Nordic Tax Journal, Issue 2, pp. 113-131, 2014, DOI: 10.1515/ntaxj-2014-0021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
) where the scope of the provision was expanded to cover situations where a lower-tier foreign subsidiary obtains the deduction. Originally, this rule was introduced in 2006 as part of another provision with regard to declared dividends, cf. the former Sec. 31 D(2) of the Corporate Tax Act , volume 84 Posted: 2006
Cf , Sec
9 of the Corporation Tax Act
Cf , Sec
33 F of the Tax Assessment Act
Cf , Sec
5 G of the Tax Assessment Act
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,113
RANK
889,370
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies