Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Planning Gone Awry: Do Tax-Motivated Firms Experience Worse Tax Outcomes from Losses Compared to Other Firms?

47 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Bradley P. Lindsey

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 25, 2018

Abstract

We study the tax outcomes associated with losses in publicly traded U.S. multinational firms. We find that tax planning using tax haven operations, which is commonly associated with relatively favorable tax outcomes for profitable firms, is associated with poor tax outcomes from losses compared to multinational firms that do not tax plan with tax haven operations. Specifically, we find that firms with tax haven operations receive significantly lower tax loss benefits in terms of both tax loss carrybacks and tax loss carryforwards. We demonstrate the striking asymmetry of the tax U.S. system, in which U.S. multinational firms are often unable to fully realize tax benefits for their losses despite provisions for tax loss carrybacks and carryforwards, and show that tax planning exacerbates this asymmetry. In addition, we note that our findings highlight a potential cost of tax avoidance: lower tax benefits from losses. We also contribute to the tax avoidance literature by providing a research design framework for studying tax outcomes during loss years.

Keywords: loss firms, tax avoidance, tax loss carrybacks

JEL Classification: M41, H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Lewellen, Christina and Lindsey, Bradley P., Tax Planning Gone Awry: Do Tax-Motivated Firms Experience Worse Tax Outcomes from Losses Compared to Other Firms? (October 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3291705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3291705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The Complementarity Between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Crossref
J Bandler , M Maremont
How a Xerox Plan to Reduce Taxes and Boost Profit Backfired
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2001-04-17
J L Brown , K D Drake
Network ties among low-tax firms
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 483 - 510 Posted: 2014
Crossref
L De Simone , K J Klassen , J K Seidman
Unprofitable Affiliates and Income Shifting Behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 3 , p. 113 - 136 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,010
RANK
342,603
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies