Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
French Favored Redistributions Derived From Surveys: A Political Assessment of Optimal Tax Theory

36 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018

Adrien Fabre

CNRS; CIRED, International Research Center on Environment & Development, France

Date Written: August 2, 2018

Abstract

An original method to find the shape of favored redistributions is presented, which is in turn used to assess the political acceptability of the optimal tax theory. Two surveys have been conducted in 2016 to quantify French preferences for income redistribution. In the first survey, respondents picked their preferred values for parameters which were used to determine the shapes of redistributions. These parameters included the proportion of winners and losers from a tax reform, and the minimum guaranteed income. Using different algorithms, several redistributions were derived from the interpolation of the median choices of each parameter (50% of winners, 10% of losers and a monthly demogrant of 800€). They resulted in transfers from high to low incomes of one tenth of the national disposable income. In the second survey, a majority of respondents agreed on implementing these redistributions. These results are in line with previous literature and robust to alternative specifications. Interestingly, the average desired redistribution corresponds closely to the shape of the optimal taxation derived from an utilitarian criterion. This allowed to show that this redistribution fails to obtain a significant majority support (contrarily to others), despite its good reception in a setting inhibiting self-interest. Finally, this study provides evidence that French citizens support a more direct democratic procedure to define the income tax rates, and describes a way to do so.

Keywords: Preferences for Redistribution, Desired Tax, Income Tax Rates, Income Distribution, France

JEL Classification: D31, D63, H21, P16

Suggested Citation:

Fabre, Adrien, French Favored Redistributions Derived From Surveys: A Political Assessment of Optimal Tax Theory (August 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3292505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Balinski , R Laraki
A theory of measuring, electing, and ranking
PNAS , volume 104 , issue 21 , p. 8720 - 8725 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O Bargain , M Dolls , D Neumann , A Peichl , S Siegloch
Comparing inequality aversion across countries when labor supply responses differ
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 845 - 873 Posted: 2014
Crossref
F Bourguignon , A Spadaro
Tax-benefit revealed social preferences
J Econ Inequal , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J W Brehm
A theory of psychological reactance. A theory of psychological reactance Posted: 1966
Load more
2 Citations
Adrien Fabre
Tie-Breaking the Highest Median: Alternatives to the Majority Judgment
13 Pages · Posted: 21 May 2018 · Last revised: 19 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 138
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adrien Fabre
Tie-breaking the highest median: alternatives to the majority judgment
Social Choice and Welfare , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 101 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
826,938
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies