Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunity Zones: An Analysis of the Policy's Implications

State Tax Notes, Vol. 90, No. 3, 2018

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-18

16 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2019

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Cody Evans

Stanford University, Graduate School of Business

Hanna Tian

Stanford University, Graduate School of Business, Students

Date Written: October 15, 2018

Abstract

This article summarizes the Opportunity Zone incentive in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by providing descriptive statistics on the selected zones, outlining considerations for investors, and using data on the New Markets Tax Credit to inform expectations of investors' responses to this policy.

Keywords: Tax, Investment, Capital Gains

JEL Classification: M480, G38, H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Lester, Rebecca and Evans, Cody and Tian, Hanna, Opportunity Zones: An Analysis of the Policy's Implications (October 15, 2018). State Tax Notes, Vol. 90, No. 3, 2018, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Matthew Freedman , Shantanu Khanna , David Neumark
Jue Insight: The Impacts of Opportunity Zones on Zone Residents
NBER Working Paper No. w28573 · 32 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 12 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,046
RANK
95,579
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies