Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expanded Worldwide Versus Territorial Taxation After the TCJA

Tax Notes, Vol. 161, 2018

BYU Law Research Paper No. 19-04

18 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2018 Last revised: 19 Mar 2019

J. Clifton Fleming

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Robert J. Peroni

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

Date Written: December 3, 2018

Abstract

One of the principal U.S. tax policy issues leading up to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was how foreign-source active business income of U.S. multinational enterprises should be taxed by the United States if the system of deferring U.S. tax on active foreign income of a foreign subsidiary was ended. Much of the U.S. multinational business community urged that the United States adopt a territorial or exemption system, while others, including many labor-backed groups, favored adopting an expanded worldwide tax regime. As others have observed, Congress chose both. This report takes a preliminary look at the extent to which the TCJA's purely outbound international provisions caused a degree of movement in either direction.

The TCJA created a more complex international system that manages to include elements of territoriality, expanded worldwide taxation, and even deferral. Consequently, the TCJA does not resolve the territorial versus worldwide debate, but extends it.

When the one-time acceleration of tax on deferred earnings is set aside, the TCJA's ongoing outbound rules are estimated to actually lose revenue, thus supporting a conclusion that the U.S. international tax system has shifted toward territoriality, although not nearly so much as territoriality advocates had hoped.

The authors have concluded that expanded worldwide taxation is the normatively preferred position. The report explains how the new global intangible low-taxed income regime may serve as a platform to shift the U.S. international tax regime to expanded worldwide taxation and identifies steps that would accomplish that objective.


Keywords: International Income Taxation, Transnational Taxation, Tax Policy, Income Taxation

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fleming, J. Clifton and Peroni, Robert Joseph and Shay, Stephen E., Expanded Worldwide Versus Territorial Taxation After the TCJA (December 3, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 161, 2018, BYU Law Research Paper No. 19-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,432
RANK
160,317
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies