Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Planning and Firms’ Information Environment

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-10

51 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2018

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 6, 2018

Abstract

This study examines whether internal information quality (IIQ) is associated with firms’ external information quality (EIQ) and whether tax planning moderates this association. Based on the argument that higher internal information quality allows managers to convey higher quality information to market participants, I hypothesize and find a positive association between IIQ and EIQ. I then examine if tax planning, which prior literature shows affects external information quality due to proprietary costs of disclosure, attenuates this association. I find that the association between IIQ and EIQ is fully attenuated for firms with a high level of tax planning. A structural equation model that allows different elements of IIQ to covary and robustness tests corroborate my findings. Overall, my results imply that increased IIQ spills over to EIQ because managers convey higher quality internal information to market participants. However, proprietary costs resulting from a high level of tax planning appear to moderate this effect.

Keywords: External information quality, information asymmetry, information environment, internal information quality, tax avoidance, tax planning

JEL Classification: G30, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Osswald, Benjamin, Corporate Tax Planning and Firms’ Information Environment (December 6, 2018). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3297419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies and Their Remediation on Accrual Quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Baiman , R E Verrecchia
The Relation among Capital Markets, Financial Disclosure, Production Efficiency, and Insider Trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B C A Bratten , S A Gleason , L F Larocque , Mills
Forecasting Taxes: New Evidence from Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Artem Malinin , Luis Garcia-Feijoo
CEO Social Capital and Stock Price Informativeness: US Perspective
50 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 106
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,689
RANK
209,542
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies