Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the GST to Imports of Low-Value Goods in Australia

Applying the GST to imports of low value goods in Australia, (2018) 47 AT Rev 83

31 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2018

Kathryn James

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Law School

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

This article examines recent Australian reforms to extend the Goods and Services Tax to imports of low-value goods. The reforms will move Australia from maintaining one of the highest thresholds for the relief of payment of the GST on the importation of low-value goods to a first-mover in its attempt to tax nearly all imported goods regardless of value. This article contends that although the reforms are warranted, the model adopted is a complex and potentially risky one.

Keywords: Goods and Services Tax, Value Added Tax, Tax Law, Tax policy

JEL Classification: K00, K10, K19, K30, K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

James, Kathryn, Applying the GST to Imports of Low-Value Goods in Australia (August 1, 2018). Applying the GST to imports of low value goods in Australia, (2018) 47 AT Rev 83, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
This statement might be true, but the approach which is necessitated by the retention of the low value goods threshold, gives rise to its own set of complications as is explained in the remainder of this part. See further Explanatory Memorandum
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) s , p. 84 - 79
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) s , p. 13 - 23
Crossref
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) ss 13-5(1) , p. 84 - 79
Crossref
Customs Tariff Act Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,600
RANK
312,985
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies