Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating Interest Expense Out of Nothing at All—Policy Options to Cap Deductions to 'Real' Interest Expense

British Tax Review, Issue 5, 2018, pp.589-605

18 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2018

Antony Ting

University of Sydney

Date Written: December 7, 2018

Abstract

It is well recognised that interest deductions are often used by multinational enterprises (“MNEs”) to minimise their tax liabilities. Despite the significant effort devoted by the OECD and the participating countries in the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project, research has shown that the recommendations of Action 4 – which aimed at strengthening interest limitation regimes – are not as effective as could have been hoped for. One of the key issues with the best practice approach recommended in Action 4 is its failure to prevent interest deductions from exceeding a MNE’s net third party interest expense, or the “real” interest expense. This outcome is ironic as the OECD has repeatedly emphasised that an important objective of Action 4 was to recommend policy options to prevent interest deduction from exceeding the “real” interest expense (“the guiding policy objective”). This begs the tax policy question: what are the policy options that can achieve the guiding policy objective?

The article aims to answer this question. It first provides a review of the policy rationale underlying the guiding policy objective, paving the way for the analysis of alternative policy options to achieve that outcome. The article concludes by arguing that, although the debt cap rule is not the ideal solution in theory, it may be the second best solution that is a pragmatic model to achieve the guiding policy objective within a country, and is especially effective to deal with lowly geared MNEs.


Suggested Citation:

Ting, Antony, Creating Interest Expense Out of Nothing at All—Policy Options to Cap Deductions to 'Real' Interest Expense (December 7, 2018). British Tax Review, Issue 5, 2018, pp.589-605, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C Burnett
Interest Deductions and Multinational Enterprises: Goldilocks and the Brave New World Posted: 2015
/7) Bulletin for International Taxation 326
Discussion Draft, above fn.5. See discussion in the next section for details
Michael D'Ascenzo
Modernizing the Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
Pages: 22 Posted: 20 May 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,563
RANK
405,369
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies