Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The US International Tax Reforms: Competition and Convergence, Pay-Offs and Policy Failures

46 INTERTAX 905 (2018)

15 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2018

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

Date Written: August 23, 2018

Abstract

The recent U.S. international tax reforms are a hodgepodge of nominal and effective tax rate reductions, a poorly designed export subsidy and unnecessarily complex revenue raising tax base protections. The most significant “international” change in the 2017 U.S. tax legislation is the “permanent” reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate. The base protections were jerry built on existing architecture. There was no effort to address the pervasive issue of remote sellers into the U.S. market. The overall result is very complex, lacks policy coherence, and, over the longer term, loses revenue. While reduced rates moderate incentive effects the revised rules manage nonetheless to encourage offshore shifting of real investment as well as profits.

Suggested Citation:

Shay, Stephen E., The US International Tax Reforms: Competition and Convergence, Pay-Offs and Policy Failures (August 23, 2018). 46 INTERTAX 905 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
325,828
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies