Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Country Risk Factors Attenuate the Effect of Tax Loss Incentives on Corporate Risk-Taking?

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-09

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 28

66 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2018 Last revised: 11 Feb 2024

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether tax-specific country risk factors attenuate the effectiveness of tax loss offsets in fostering corporate investments. We posit that impairments of the administrative and financial capacity of countries, administrative risk and budget risk, to provide tax refunds upon losses affect firms’ confidence in tax loss incentives. Exploiting a cross-country panel, we find that country risk factors do damp the effectiveness of loss offsets in fostering risky investments. This effect is economically significant. While the existence of a loss carryback is associated with about 10.1 percent higher corporate risk-taking in low risk countries, we do not find a significant increase in high risk countries. Our results indicate that the damping effect is most pronounced in countries with high administrative risk and high taxes. For loss carryforwards, we document about 3.1 percent higher risk-taking in low risk countries and a less pronounced attenuation under both administrative and budget risk. Additional analyses suggest that the incentive of loss offsets may even reverse under high country risk, especially in high tax countries. Narrower settings around rating downgrades and budget crises provide consistent evidence. Our results suggest that countries’ prompt and reliable processing of tax refunds can be undermined by country risk factors. For tax incentives to succeed, governments need to minimize administrative and budgetary risks.

Keywords: administrative risk, budget risk, corporate risk-taking, corporate tax, country risk, investment incentives, loss offset, tax reform

JEL Classification: H25, H32, G31

Suggested Citation:

Osswald, Benjamin and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Do Country Risk Factors Attenuate the Effect of Tax Loss Incentives on Corporate Risk-Taking? (February 1, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-09, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3297418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M Adelino , M A Ferreira
Bank Ratings and Lending Supply: Evidence from Sovereign Downgrade
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 1709 - 1746 Posted: 2016
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
A C Baker , D Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers Posted: 2021-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,225
RANK
185,220
13 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies