Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing the Corporate Tax Base: Equitable Taxing of Multinationals and the Choice of Formulary Apportionment

Faccio, T. ; Valpy Fitzgerald, (2018), "Sharing the Corporate Tax Base: Equitable Taxing of Multinationals and the Choice of Formulary Apportionment", Transnational Corporations, Vol.25(2), 67-90.

24 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2019

Tommaso Faccio

Nottingham University Business School

Valpy Fitzgerald

University of Oxford - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 11, 2018

Abstract

Tax avoidance by multinational enterprises (MNEs) is a global problem. Most cross-border trade occurs within MNEs, susceptible to abuse of gaps and loopholes in domestic and international tax law that allow “profit shifting” between fiscal jurisdictions in order to reduce corporate tax liability. A lack of transparency makes this kind of tax avoidance difficult to quantify – let alone to monitor and control. This paper provides a case study of profit shifting using publicly available, unique, country-by-country reporting data for Vodafone Group Plc, the first large MNE to voluntarily publish such data. We show the tax impact of a move to formulary apportionment on a global basis, and under the European Union’s Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base proposal. We also consider the rationale for the current proposals for apportionment factors and propose an alternative.


Keywords: transfer pricing, formulary apportionment, CCCTB, developing countries, tax avoidance, horizontal equity, vertical equity, equal distribution, taxing rights

Suggested Citation:

Faccio, Tommaso and Fitzgerald, Valpy, Sharing the Corporate Tax Base: Equitable Taxing of Multinationals and the Choice of Formulary Apportionment (December 11, 2018). Faccio, T. ; Valpy Fitzgerald, (2018), "Sharing the Corporate Tax Base: Equitable Taxing of Multinationals and the Choice of Formulary Apportionment", Transnational Corporations, Vol.25(2), 67-90., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3299485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A. Clausing
A Proposal to Adopt Formulary Apportionment for Corporate Income Taxation: The Hamilton Project
U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 07-009, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 85 Pages: 56 Posted: 25 Jun 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K A Clausing , Y Lahav
Corporate tax payments under formulary apportionment: Evidence from the financial reports of 50 major U.S. multinational firms
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 105 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T Faccio , S Picciotto
Alternatives to the Separate Entity/Arm's Length Principle for Taxation of Multinational Enterprises Posted: 2017
Icrict
A roadmap to improve rules for taxing multinationals. A fairer future for global taxation Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
RANK
218,252
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies