Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Administrations’ Capacity in Preventing Tax Evasion and Tax Avoidance

92 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2019

Frederik Heitmüller

Independent; Leiden University; Tax Justice Network

Moran Harari

Tax Justice Network

Markus Meinzer

Tax Justice Network

Date Written: October 17, 2018

Abstract

We explore the role of tax administrations in the fight against inequality through data analysis of a survey consisting of 71 questions that we have designed and sent to the tax administrations of all EU Member States. The survey focuses mainly on the capacity concerning the enforcement of tax policies aiming at combating fiscal fraud and tax avoidance and on specific institutional aspects that can potentially explain a lack of enforcement. The paper explores the data we received from seven respondent jurisdictions and combines it with additional data available through the International Survey on Revenue Administration (ISORA). Our analysis covers, among others, topics such as the protection of whistleblowers, performance and staffing of large taxpayer offices, prosecution activities and the “revolving door”-phenomenon. These topics were chosen based on data gaps we identified in existing datasets available on capacity of tax administrations. Building on (preliminary) analysis of this data, we indicate several issues which we consider as potentially the most critical with regards to countering inequality; we also generate several hypotheses likely to be used in future research.

Keywords: Tax Administration, Tax Evasion, Tax Avoidance, Economic Inequality, Administrative Capacity, Survey

JEL Classification: H26, H83, H87, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Heitmüller, Frederik and Heitmüller, Frederik and Harari, Moran and Meinzer, Markus, Tax Administrations’ Capacity in Preventing Tax Evasion and Tax Avoidance (October 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3300589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
687
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,823
RANK
86,703
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies