Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2019 Last revised: 19 Aug 2021

Sebastien Bradley

Drexel University

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Martin Ruf

University of Tübingen

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Intellectual property (IP) box regimes reward ownership of successful technology by imposing lower tax rates on income derived from IP relative to other sources of business income. Coupled with explicit provisions regarding the eligibility of acquired IP, IP boxes may affect merger and acquisition (M&A) incentives through multiple channels. Applying panel differences-in-differences, triple-differencing, and event study methods, we examine the effects of these modified incentives on the volume of M&A transactions and acquisition probabilities. In regimes with strict nexus requirements, reduced taxation of IP income is associated with reductions in the number of deals and the probability of being acquired for patent-owning firms due to the potential loss of eligibility for preferential taxation. This effect dissipates where nexus requirements are relaxed, and significant positive effects of IP box tax savings in more permissive regimes point to increased after-tax valuations of merger-driven synergies.


Keywords: IP box, tax policy, acquisition, M&A, innovation, patent

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Bradley, Sebastien and Robinson, Leslie and Ruf, Martin, The Impact of IP Box Regimes on the M&A Market (March 19, 2021). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3304559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3304559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodeme , A M Skonieczna , A Vezzani
Patent boxes design, patents location and local R&D
Economic Policy , volume 33 , issue 93 , p. 131 - 177 Posted: 2018
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Christopher S Armstrong , John D Kepler
Theory, Research Design Assumptions, and Causal Inferences
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 2-3 , p. 366 - 373 Posted: 2018
W Arulampalam , M Devereux , F Liberini
Taxes and the location of targets
Journal of Public Economics , volume 176 , p. 161 - 178 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
RANK
244,564
17 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies