Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of GST on Stock Indices in India

Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Digital Strategies for Organizational Success

6 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2019

Dr. Abhay Singh Chauhan

SVKM's NMIMS Deemed to be University - Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies; Symbiosis Centre for Management Studies, Pune

Sanjeev Gupta

SLP Govt. PG College

S.K. Singh

Jiwaji University

Date Written: January 5, 2019

Abstract

On 1st July, 2017, India witnessed the launch of the Goods & Services Tax in India. It was the historic moment of India which was the culmination of 14-year long journey which began in December 2002 when the kelkar’s Task force on indirect taxes suggested a comprehensive Goods and service tax based on the value added tax principal. Our study specifically focuses on the impact of GST on stock indices. Various stock indices data of BSE and NSE was taken before and after the implementation of GST. Paired T test was applied and found out that there is a significant difference between pre and post implementation of GST.

Keywords: Goods and Services Tax, Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Chauhan, Abhay Singh and Gupta, Sanjeev and Singh, S.K., Impact of GST on Stock Indices in India (January 5, 2019). Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Digital Strategies for Organizational Success, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3308711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S Dani
A Research Paper on an Impact of Goods and Service Tax (GST) on Indian Economy
Bus Eco J , volume 7 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Gupta
Problems of double taxation in India-A case for progressive GST (goods and services tax)
Journal of Commerce and Management Thought , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 456 - 476 Posted: 2015
Crossref
GST impact on infrastructure: It will cut multiple taxes but will affect cost of construction Posted: 2017-07-11
GST: Impact on SMBs, technology services and startups SME sector
The Economic Times (Online) Posted: 2017-06-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
916
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,603
RANK
59,211
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies