Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electing Into a Value-Added Tax: Evidence From Ontario Microentrepreneurs

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 4, 2018

48 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2019 Last revised: 30 Jan 2019

Emily A. Satterthwaite

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: December 13, 2018

Abstract

Why would an entrepreneur elect, on behalf of her business, to comply with a tax that is not required? A little-studied provision embedded in the majority of value-added tax (VAT) statutes worldwide permits otherwise exempt "small suppliers" (typically defined as businesses with annual revenues below a specified registration threshold) to register voluntarily for, collect, and remit VAT on their sales to customers. Economic models of the input credit mechanism that refunds registered sellers for the VAT that they pay on inputs show that incentives to register voluntarily for VAT increase as small suppliers (1) purchase more of their inputs from registered firms (the input channel) or (2) sell more of their output to registered firms (the customer channel). Promoting such "formality chain effects" through voluntary registration can improve the efficiency and self-enforcing properties of a VAT. In the real world, however, many VAT registration thresholds are far lower than the level recommended by economists. Low VAT thresholds imply that only the smallest businesses, which often bear disproportionately high VAT compliance costs, are eligible to opt in. But the question of whether formality chain effects are relevant for the key taxpayer population in low-threshold settings -- microentrepreneurs -- is an open one.

To address that question, this article presents results from a hybrid (quantitative and semi-structured qualitative) survey of nearly 100 Ontario-based small suppliers (defined, under Canada's federal goods and services tax statute, as businesses with annual revenues below Cdn$30,000). Within this sample, small suppliers' voluntary registration behaviour was broadly consistent with the presence of customer-channel formality chain effects. However, patterns consistent with the input channel were absent, and qualitative responses of unregistered participants cited trepidation about complexity at levels that were not borne out by the reported experiences of participants who had registered voluntarily. These findings suggest that, even in a jurisdiction with a very low threshold, voluntary registration has the capacity to promote production efficiency through formality chain effects. To the extent that this capacity is restricted to he customer channel owing to unregistered small suppliers' exaggerated fears about the complexity of registration, tax authorities should consider measures to correct such misperceptions through outreach, education, or pilot programs that offer limited subsidies for voluntary registration.


Keywords: Compliance, Value-Added Tax, GST, Indirect Taxes, Small Business, Registration

Suggested Citation:

Satterthwaite, Emily A., Electing Into a Value-Added Tax: Evidence From Ontario Microentrepreneurs (December 13, 2018). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3309684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
This factor was mentioned by six participants, or 6 percent of the full sample (5 percent of all registered participants; 7 percent of all unregistered participants)
Competitiveness
Five participants, or 5 percent of the full sample, mentioned competitiveness in relation to pricing as a factor (5 percent of all registered participants; 5 percent of all unregistered participants). An example of a response citing this factor (as reported by the interviewer as a note rather than a direct quote from the respondent) is [H]e said that because his customers were mainly homeowners, he found it (when he was registered
This factor was mentioned by four participants, or 4 percent of the full sample (10 percent of all registered participants; none of the unregistered participants). Because all participants had verified that they met the
To my knowledge, cash support has not been discussed since the late 1990s when the GST was introduced in Australia. See Fernandez and Oats, supra note 48
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
605,632
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies