Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of the Right to Tax Income from Digital Intermediary Platforms – Challenges and Possibilities for Taxation in the Jurisdiction of the User

Nordic Journal of Commercial Law, Issue 1, pp. 146-172, 2018, DOI: 10.5278/ojs.njcl.v0i1.2488

Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 19-03

27 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2018

Peter Koerver Schmidt

Copenhagen Business School - CBS Law

Louise Blichfeldt Fjord

Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: November 24, 2018

Abstract

The authors analyse the current (lack of) possibilities for user-jurisdictions to tax the value generated by the increased use of digital intermediary platforms. Focus is on analysing the possibilities for user-jurisdictions to tax the remuneration received by a foreign enterprise owning a digital intermediary platform and on discussing whether the users’ provision of personal data in exchange for access to the platform could be considered a barter transaction for tax purposes in the user-jurisdiction. Among other things, it is concluded that user-jurisdictions, pursuant to current international tax treaties, will normally be precluded from taxing the income of foreign platform enterprises, as the platform enterprises are often able to deliver their digital services remotely. Against this background, a number of tax policy challenges and options of relevance for taxing platform enterprises are discussed, in particular the proposed directive on significant digital presence recently put forward by the European Commission. It is concluded that the proposal may prove to be an adequate step towards taxation in the user jurisdictions, even though the proposal needs further work in order to become sufficiently clear and targeted and the scope may be limited.



Keywords: Digital intermediary platforms, international tax law, jurisdiction to tax, user participation, tax treaties

Suggested Citation:

Koerver Schmidt, Peter and Fjord, Louise Blichfeldt, Allocation of the Right to Tax Income from Digital Intermediary Platforms – Challenges and Possibilities for Taxation in the Jurisdiction of the User (November 24, 2018). Nordic Journal of Commercial Law, Issue 1, pp. 146-172, 2018, DOI: 10.5278/ojs.njcl.v0i1.2488 , Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 19-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3310153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
International , The , . . Challenge
Directive Proposal COM , volume 147 Posted: 2018
Crossref
See also Bjørn Westberg, 'Taxation of the Digital Economy -An EU Perspective
Commission Expert Group on Taxation of the Digital EconomyReport Posted: 2014
European Taxation 12, and Paolo Centore and Maria Teresa Sutich, 'Taxation and the Digital Economy
Europe is Ready , p. 42 - 54 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,082
RANK
449,075
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies