Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Rate Changes on Capital Gains Realisations: Evidence From Australia

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 33(4), 2018

32 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019

John Minas

Monash University

Youngdeok Lim

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

Australia experienced a major reduction to the rate at which capital gains are taxed on the introduction of the “50% CGT discount” in the 1999‑2000 fiscal year. Claims made at the time of this effective capital gains tax (CGT) rate reduction suggested it would lead to increased realisations as well as an increase in tax revenue. Using time series data from 1988‑89 to 2014‑15, the authors estimate the capital gains realisations response for Australian personal taxpayers. The authors’ elasticity point estimates imply overall revenue losses from the introduction of the CGT discount.

Suggested Citation:

Minas, John and Lim, Youngdeok and Evans, Christopher Charles, The Impact of Tax Rate Changes on Capital Gains Realisations: Evidence From Australia (August 9, 2018). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 33(4), 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3311234
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies