Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Income Tax Exemption of Charities and the Tax Deductibility of Charitable Donations: The United States and Australia Compared

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 33(4), 2018

33 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2019

Fiona Martin

The University of Sydney

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: August 28, 2018

Abstract

This article analyses and compares the income tax exemption for charities and the tax deductibility of donations to charities in the United States of America and Australia both from a fiscal and social perspective. It commences with an explanation of not‑for-profit status and the development of the legal concept of charity in both countries. It then compares the different approaches in Australia and the US to this legal concept and the rise of the income tax exemption and its significance both financially and socially. The authors then discuss the development and implementation of tax deductibility of donations in both countries. The article concludes with an evaluation of specific and significant differences between the US and Australia which are the taxation of unrelated business income of charities and the different approaches to tax deductibility of donations.

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Fiona and Todd, Timothy M., The Income Tax Exemption of Charities and the Tax Deductibility of Charitable Donations: The United States and Australia Compared (August 28, 2018). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 33(4), 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3311238
Purchase - $45
37 References
National Anti-Vivisection Society v Inland Revenue Commissioners
Crossref
The Incorporated Council of Law Reporting of the State of Queensland v FCT Posted: 1971
Re Compton
, volume 123 Posted: 1945
Turner Dingle V
AC , volume 601 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies