Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Rates on Corporate Risk-Taking

37 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2019

Markus Gamm

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Date Written: October 30, 2018

Abstract

According to transfer pricing rules, the allocation of assets, functions and risks within multinational companies determines the distribution of profits. This gives multinationals the incentive to shift valuable assets, complex functions and high risks to low tax countries. Whereas the literature has extensively studied the allocation of assets and debt within multinationals, I shed light on the intra-group allocation of risk. First, I outline how intragroup risk shifting can be conducted in different industries. Second, by using a dataset of unconsolidated financial statements, I show that subsidiaries’ level of risk is significantly affected by the statutory tax rate. This holds especially true for manufacturing groups and their subsidiaries in the service industry. Third, I show that for a matched sample of stand-alone companies, their level of risk is also affected by the statutory tax rate.

Keywords: risk allocation, transfer pricing, profit-shifting

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Gamm, Markus, The Impact of Tax Rates on Corporate Risk-Taking (October 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3312398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3312398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
C J Bauer , D Langenmayr
Sorting into outsourcing: Are profits taxed at gorilla's arm's length?
Journal of International Economics , volume 90 , p. 326 - 336 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Becker , N Johannesen , N Riedel
Taxation and the allocation of risk inside the multinational firm
CESifo Working Paper Series No , volume 7033 Posted: 2018-05-14
S K Bilaney
Supply Chain Management using Alternative Manufacturing Models
International Transfer Pricing Journal , volume 21 , p. 85 - 95 Posted: 2014
J L Blouin , L A Robinson , J K Seidman
Conflicting Transfer Pricing Incentives and the Role of Coordination
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 87 - 116 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
552,835
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies