Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Income Tax in the EU, the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) and Beyond: Is it the Right Way to Go?

ETUI Research Paper - Working Paper 2018.06

31 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Christian Valenduc

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL)

Date Written: January 15, 2019

Abstract

This working paper reviews key elements of the debate around the Commission’s proposals to tackle the problem of low effective tax rates for multi-national companies by instituting a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB). The paper begins with a non-technical discussion of the main issues, including earlier OECD and G20 proposals, and their implications for European tax policy. It then discusses the relevance of the CCTB proposal and considers to what extent it could provide a comprehensive solution for the main issues at stake.

Keywords: income tax ; taxation ; corporation tax ; EU policy ; EU countries

Suggested Citation:

Valenduc, Christian, Corporate Income Tax in the EU, the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) and Beyond: Is it the Right Way to Go? (January 15, 2019). ETUI Research Paper - Working Paper 2018.06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3316120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3316120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M T Alvarez-Martinez , S Barrios , Andria D Gesualdo , M Pontikakis , D Pycroft , J
Modelling corporate tax reform in the EU: new calibration and simulations with the CORTAX model, Taxation Papers Working Paper 66 Posted: 2016
A Alstadsaeter , S Barrios , G Nicodeme , A M Skonieczna , A Vezzani
Patent boxes design, patent location and local R&D
Taxation Papers Working Paper , volume 57 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Un tax shifting en faveur du travail et des bases imposables plus larges : scénarios pour une réforme fiscale globale et significative
Conseil supérieur des Finances Posted: 2014
Andria D Pontikakis , D Skonieczna , A
Towards a European R&D incentive ? An assessment of R&D provisions under a common corporate tax base, Taxation Papers Working Paper 69 Posted: 2017
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,307
RANK
192,204
5 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Trade Union Institute (ETUI) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies