Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Trend in Indian Direct Taxation: An Analysis of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards

VISION: Journal of Indian Taxation Volume 5, Issue 2, pp. 16-26, July-December 2018, DOI: 10.17492/vision.v5i2.14389

11 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2019

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

M. L. Ashok

University of Mysore

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: December 31, 2018

Abstract

Income computation and disclosure standard is one of the competent standards which minimizes the divergence between accounting income and tax income. This standard does not require any additional books of accounts to be maintained by the business organizations but only the thing is the manner of computation of income for the purpose levying of tax under the head ‘Profit or gains from business or profession’ and ‘Income from other sources’. The present study is purely based on secondary data and is a descriptive study to analyze the impact of ICDS on business transactions and its implementation challenges in India.

Keywords: Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS); Ind-As; Income determination; Business income

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and Ashok, M. L. and M. S., Divyashree, Emerging Trend in Indian Direct Taxation: An Analysis of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (December 31, 2018). VISION: Journal of Indian Taxation Volume 5, Issue 2, pp. 16-26, July-December 2018, DOI: 10.17492/vision.v5i2.14389 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
C Chawla , V Jain , A Joshi , V Gupta
A study of satisfaction level and awareness of tax-payers towards e-filing of income tax return
Journal of Research in Management and Technology , volume 2 , issue 5 , p. 60 - 66 Posted: 2013
N R Ghuge , V Vasantrao
Indian tax structure -An analytical perspective
International Journal of Management and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 243 - 252 Posted: 2015
The NPR/Kaiser family foundation/Kennedy school National Survey of Americans Views on Taxes Posted: 2003
E Kirchler , S Muehlbacher , B Kastlunger , I Wahl
Why pay taxes? A review of tax compliance decisions. Developing Alternative Frameworks for Explaining Tax Compliance , p. 15 - 31 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,971
RANK
209,542
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies