Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How The Netherlands Became a Tax Haven for Multinationals

23 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2019

Jan Vleggeert

Leiden University - Leiden Law School

Henk Vording

Leiden University - Leiden Law School; Peking University - Peking University Law School

Date Written: January 17, 2019

Abstract

The Netherlands tax environment for multinational foreign directive investment (FDI) has been characterized as ‘a tax haven’ or, perhaps more accurately, as a ‘conduit financial centre’. Anyway, with a share of 25% in the worldwide market for tax-driven FDI diversion, the Dutch tax planning industry has become a prominent target of recent OECD and EU anti-avoidance measures. Adaptations in many of the relevant Dutch tax rules are by now under way.

The paper aims at the interactions between (a) the making of the relevant tax environment and (b) the rise of a specialized industry for FDI tax planning over the last century. The basic mechanism will be shown to be simple. A century ago, Dutch rules for taxation of cross-border FDI started to develop from a consistent view: FDI should not be hindered by tax borders. This served the interests of a small open economy hosting many internationally successful enterprises. A specialized tax planning industry only emerged in the second half of the 20th century as a by-product of international tax policies aimed at substantial business interests. But as this industry grew, its role in shaping and re-shaping the relevant rules increased. Only very recently, this role has begun to decline due to both international policy pressure and national public opinion.

Issues to be discussed from this perspective include the development of Dutch tax treaty policy, the Dutch position in international tax coordination processes, and the development of relevant rules in Dutch tax law, starting with the first Dutch income tax law (1893/4) and with a focus on post-1945 developments.


Keywords: Tax Havens; MNE Tax Planning

Suggested Citation:

Vleggeert, Jan and Vording, Henk, How The Netherlands Became a Tax Haven for Multinationals (January 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3317629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,761
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,573
RANK
22,723
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies