Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of Corruption and Tax Non-Compliance Behaviour: Policy Implications for Developing Countries

43 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2019

Arifin Rosid

Directorate General of Taxation; Department of Accounting

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: January 18, 2019

Abstract

Tax non-compliance and perceptions of corruption are key challenges to state-building in developing countries. Using a social psychology approach, we develop a theoretical model in which different forms of perceived corruption can adversely influence the way individual taxpayers behave. We then apply this model to Indonesia, placing our empirical findings in the context of compliance risk management, identifying strategies to improve tax compliance, and exploring how to implement these strategies effectively. We shed light on the applicability of the traditional responsive regulatory approach (used by revenue authorities to deal with intentionally non-compliant taxpayers), which combines measures in attempting to achieve either voluntary or enforced compliance. While the empirical evidence is based on the Indonesian experience, we suggest that our model is sufficiently general and robust to be applicable to other developing countries in the Asia-Pacific region.

Keywords: corruption, tax compliance, compliance risk management, norm-based intervention

JEL Classification: D03, H20, H24, H26

Suggested Citation:

Rosid, Arifin and Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh, Perceptions of Corruption and Tax Non-Compliance Behaviour: Policy Implications for Developing Countries (January 18, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3317994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3317994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Why do people pay taxes?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , C Mcclellan
Corruption and firm tax evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 124 , p. 146 - 163 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J S Armstrong , T S Overton
Estimating nonresponse bias in mail surveys
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 14 , p. 396 - 402 Posted: 1977
Crossref
S Beer , M Kasper , E Kirchler , B Erard
Do audits deter future noncompliance? Evidence on self-employed taxpayers
Tax Policy Center (TPC) Research Conference Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
755
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,168
RANK
76,773
4 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies