Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Salty Citizens: Which SALTs Contribute to State-to-State Migration?

Journal of the American Taxation Association

Posted: 19 Jan 2019 Last revised: 2 Feb 2024

Amy M. Hageman

Kansas State University

Sean W.G. Robb

University of Central Florida

Jason Schwebke

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

State and local governments depend heavily on revenue generated from state and local taxes (SALTs). Migration between states occurs for many non-tax reasons, but prior research suggests tax-related factors may play an important role. Even so, the specific SALTs motivating state-to-state migration remain unclear given mixed and inconclusive results of prior studies. This study examines state and local tax variables individually and then jointly, and controls for important economic and noneconomic factors to determine which SALTs matter to residents when making relocation decisions. Using data collected from multiple sources for 2008 to 2015, results indicate overall state and local tax burden, individual income taxes, select sales taxes, and property taxes are all significantly and negatively associated with taxpayer migration. Further, select sales taxes and property taxes seem to be most significantly associated with migration. We also provide some intuition related to the economic impact associated with net migration.

Keywords: Tax Policy, State-to-State Migration, State and Local Taxation, Economic Impact

Suggested Citation:

Hageman, Amy M. and Robb, Sean W.G. and Schwebke, Jason, Salty Citizens: Which SALTs Contribute to State-to-State Migration? (March 1, 2021). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3318350
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies