Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of 'Business Tax Changing to Value Added Tax' on Enterprise Innovation in China ----from the Perspective of Enterprises’ Tax-transfer Ability

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

22 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019

Cao Qingzi

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - School of Accounting

Wang Wei

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - School of Accounting

Hua Wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 20, 2019

Abstract

The policy dividend of “Business tax changing to Value added tax” (“BT to VAT”) that the enterprise can enjoy is closely related to its own tax-transfer ability due to the easily tax-transfer characteristic of valued added tax. Based on the samples of Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share from 2009 to 2016, we studies the impact of “Business tax changing to Value added tax” policy on enterprise R&D innovation, and takes the bargaining power of suppliers and buyers as indicators to measure the tax-transfer ability of enterprises, and examines the impact of the tax-transfer ability of enterprises on the effect of “BT to VAT” policy. The research result shows that this reform has prompted the enterprise to increase the investment in research and development and improve the level of innovation. When the tax-transfer ability is stronger, the promotion effect of “BT to VAT” on enterprise innovation is more significant. Further research finds that enterprises with different property rights and different industries have different responses to the effect of “BT to VAT” policy. The incentive effect of “BT to VAT” policy on enterprise innovation and the effect of tax-transfer ability on the effect of “BT to VAT” policy are only significant in non-state-owned enterprises and other modern service enterprises. The conclusions of this paper provide theoretical and empirical basis for in-depth analysis of the effect of “BT to VAT” policy and the government's subsequent improvement on the tax reform policy to further stimulate enterprise innovation and industrial transformation.

Keywords: 'Business tax changing to Value added tax' ('BT to VAT'), enterprise innovation, tax-transfer ability, property rights

Suggested Citation:

Qingzi, Cao and Wei, Wang and Wang, Hua, The Impact of 'Business Tax Changing to Value Added Tax' on Enterprise Innovation in China ----from the Perspective of Enterprises’ Tax-transfer Ability (January 20, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3319159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3319159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell
Competition and Innovation: An Invented U Relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economies , volume 120 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Aghion , J V Reenen , Zingales L
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
N Bloom , R Griffith , J Reenen
Do R&D tax credits work? Evidence from a panel of countries 1979-1997
J]. Journal of Public Economics , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,780
RANK
434,536
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies