Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership Verification: Ensuring the Truthfulness and Accuracy of Registered Ownership Information

69 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2019

Andres Knobel

Tax Justice Network

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

In a world where billion-dollar corruption and money laundering schemes can travel through developed countries’ financial institutions undetected, the only chance for any country’s authorities to successfully address financial crime is to apply cutting edge technology for crime detection. At the core of the fight against illicit financial flows is authorities’ ability to verify the identity of the beneficial owners who control the world’s companies and trusts. Applying advanced analytics and inter-connecting ownership registries is the only way to make sure legitimate businesses flourish, while preventing the abuse of legal vehicles that rob countries off their resources and erode trust in democracy and state institutions. This will also be good for real businesses. By helping businesses easily and effectively check their supply chains and the companies they work with business can better prevent sanctioning risks to their reputation for having engaged with the wrong people.

Section 1 of this report briefly reviews the concept and importance of beneficial ownership. It describes countries’ contradictory or insufficient measures in relation to beneficial ownership transparency needed to address illicit financial flows related to corruption, money laundering or the financing of terrorism. Section 2 refers to all the relevant data on beneficial ownership that should be collected in the first place to allow for verification. It summarizes the definitions of beneficial ownership depending on the various types of legal vehicles and their combination. It lists all details that should be collected and it adds new innovative proposals for ensuring registered beneficial ownership is accurate and easier to verify. Section 3 and 4 are the core of this paper and describe the IT system that governments should establish to automatically cross-check and verify beneficial ownership information, both in terms of validity (section 3) as well as advanced analytics for redflagging purposes (section 4). Section 5 discusses issues relating to costs and sanctions for noncompliance.

Suggested Citation:

Knobel, Andres, Beneficial Ownership Verification: Ensuring the Truthfulness and Accuracy of Registered Ownership Information (January 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320600 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3320600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Jana Chvalkovská , Janský , Petr , Jiri Skuhrovec
Bearer shares in paper form and public procurement Posted: 2012
Ernesto Savona , Michele Riccardi
Mapping the Risk of Serious and Organised Crime Infiltration in European Businesses -Final Report of the MORE Project'. Milan: Transcrime -Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Posted: 2018
Financial Action Task Force
The FATF Recommendations. International Standards on Combating Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism & Proliferation Posted: 2012-02
Crossref
Global Witness. 'The Companies We Keep. What the UK's Open Data Register Actually Tells Us about Company Ownership
Financial Action Task Force (FATF). 'Concealment of Beneficial Ownership Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
639
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,461
RANK
95,209
10 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies