Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Marriage of Artificial Intelligence and Tax Law: Past, Present, and Future

9 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2019

Blazej Kuzniacki

Lazarski University

Date Written: January 27, 2019

Abstract

According to recent research’s prediction, global GDP could be up to 14% higher in 2030 as a result of various artificial intelligence (AI) applications, which is the equivalent of an additional $15.7 trillion. It makes AI oriented sectors the biggest commercial opportunity in the currently supersonic fast changing economy. This contribution, perhaps surprisingly, does not aim to propose how to tax profits generated by AI industries. The author rather takes an attempt to depict a potential of AI technologies to be applied to tax law. Let us see if AI can be happily married with tax law in order to get the best of both worlds.

Keywords: AI, Tax Law, Business, Technology, Innovation, Algorithms

Suggested Citation:

Kuzniacki, Blazej, The Marriage of Artificial Intelligence and Tax Law: Past, Present, and Future (January 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3323867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3323867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Cf
To know the law is not merely to understand the words, but as well their force and effect" (scire leges non hoc est verba earum tenere sed vim ac potestatem), the words of Celsus, a 2nd-century Greek philosopher, as included in Justinian
See more on goal oriented interpretation of law in R. Dworkin, Law's Empire , volume 1 Posted: 1986
V Stevens , J Barot , Carter
The Next Generation of Legal Expert Systems-New Dawn or False Dawn?
Research and Development in Intelligent Systems Posted: 2012
Crossref
D E Wilkins
C. Shank, I'm Sorry, Dave, I'm Afraid I Can't Do That: How Could HAL Use Language, in Hal's Legacy: 2001's Computer as Dream and Reality , p. 182 - 186 Posted: 1997
M Mcjohn
Review of the
Harvard Journal of Law & Technology , volume 12 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,031
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,249
RANK
50,189
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies