Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Matters in Tax Enforcement

2020 B.Y.U. L. Rev. 145

Brigham Young University Law Review, Volume 145

75 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2019 Last revised: 14 Nov 2020

Leandra Lederman

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Joseph Dugan

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Date Written: December 21, 2019

Abstract

Most legal and economics scholars recognize both that the government needs information about taxpayers’ transactions in order to determine whether their reporting is honest, and that third-party reporting helps the government obtain that information. Given governments’ reliance on tax funds, it is risky to think that information or third-party reporting is not needed by tax agencies. However, a recent article by Professor Wei Cui asserts that “modern governments can practice ‘taxation without information.’” Professor Cui’s argument rests on two premises: (1) “giving governments effective access to taxpayer information through third parties does not explain the success of modern tax administration” because, he argues, some important taxes, such as the value added tax (VAT), do not involve information reporting; and (2) modern tax administration succeeds because business firms are “sites of social cooperation under the rule of law,” fostering compliance. As this Article explains, the literature demonstrates that both arguments are mistaken. That is, it shows that third-party information reporting is highly effective, information sharing is used to enforce VATs, and firms are not inherently compliant. In fact, where individuals report on firms, firms’ compliance increases, which supports the intuitive notion that third-party reporting increases tax compliance and that information accordingly matters in tax enforcement.

Keywords: third-party reporting, information reporting, TPIR, tax compliance, tax enforcement, tax evasion, VATs, value-added taxes, small firms, large firms, firm compliance, firm honesty, corporate compliance, corporate honesty

JEL Classification: G38, H26, H32, K22, K34, K42, L21, M14, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lederman, Leandra and Dugan, Joseph, Information Matters in Tax Enforcement (December 21, 2019). 2020 B.Y.U. L. Rev. 145, Brigham Young University Law Review, Volume 145, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3325598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3325598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Self-employed individuals engaged in business, the professions, and agriculture are sometimes collectively referred to as the 'hard-to-tax
See Cui
Crossref
E G See , Santiago Levy , Good Intentions , Bad Outcomes
showing the declining percentage of illegal (undeclared) employees by increasing firm size and the percentage of illegal (unregistered) firms by increasing firm size)
SOCIAL POLICY, INFORMALITY, AND ECONOMIC GROWTH IN MEXICO 182 figs , p. 7 - 9 Posted: 2008
Pierre Bachas
Size Dependent Tax Enforcement and Compliance: Global Evidence and Aggregate Implications , p. 17 - 19 Posted: 2018-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,640
RANK
181,909
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies