Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Morals and the Brazilian Citizen: Empirical Study

25 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Marcelo Lopes Bello Coelho

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: February 2, 2019

Abstract

This study analyzes the tax morals of the Brazilian citizen, aiming to measure its level, as well as if there is a difference of the tax morals in the sociodemographic characteristics. Tax morale is an important determinant of compliance with tax legislation, so measure it and evaluate each aspect that determines it allows to strategize and ensure better fiscal conformity. The period of the survey was between the months of May and August of the year 2017, with 679 participants. The questionnaire adapted from the work of Torgler, Schaffner and MacIntyre (2007) and with multiple choice objective questions allowed the collection of data from individuals, and was applied indirectly, electronically, validated by the use of the alpha coefficient of Crombach. The results showed in medium terms a perception neutral or partially contrary to the practice of tax evasion. As far as gender is concerned, the results indicate that women generally have higher tax morals than men; As far as religion is concerned, it has been demonstrated that spiritists have higher tax morals compared to participants who have declared other religions; As far as education is concerned, it was realized that the higher the formal education, the higher the tax moral. It is concluded that the results obtained are relevant and meaningful, and certainly help to better understand the challenge of tax compliance, as well as subsidize new investigations on the subject, given the theoretical and social relevance, and the unprecedent research in Brazil.

Keywords: Tax morals. fiscal compliance. tax evasion.

JEL Classification: H2,H26

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Coelho, Marcelo Lopes Bello, Tax Morals and the Brazilian Citizen: Empirical Study (February 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3327772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3327772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax morale and tax compliance from the firm's perspective
Crossref
Kyklos , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
G Barone , S Mocetti
Tax morale and public spending inefficiency. International Tax Public Finance, v. 18, n. 732 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2011
Load more
1 Citations
Favourate Y Sebele-Mpofu
The Informal Sector, the “implicit” Social Contract, the Willingness to Pay Taxes and Tax Compliance in Zimbabwe
Accounting, Economics, and Law: A Convivium , volume 0 , issue 0 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,535
RANK
588,428
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies