Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation Between Operational Efficiency and Tax Aggressiveness in Brazil

27 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Eloy Paste Junior

Independent

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper studies whether there is a relation between the operational efficiency measured through the Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) models and the tax aggressiveness of the Brazilian public companies listed on B3 between the period of 2010 to 2015. The main hypothesis is that companies that are more operational efficient are in average less tax aggressive. Or, in other words, we predict that the less operational efficient companies have usually to engage in tax aggressiveness strategies more often. An efficiency score was calculated considering the outputs and inputs of the companies, classifying them according to the Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) models to determine the relative company’s operational efficiency. The tax aggressiveness was measured by the difference between the Effective Tax Rates (ETR) and the average of ETR of companies from specifics economic sectors. Five relevant economic sectors were evaluated. A Data Panel model was estimated using the fixed effects. Considering the regression of all sectors, the results confirmed the hypothesis that companies that are more operational efficient in average tend to be less tax aggressive. However, when the samples were separated by sectors, only in the Energy and Textile Sectors this relation is significant.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness. Operational Efficiency. Data envelopment analysis (DEA)

JEL Classification: M41, M11

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Paste Junior, Eloy, The Relation Between Operational Efficiency and Tax Aggressiveness in Brazil (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3327787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3327787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
L Angulo Meza
ISYDS: Integrated System for Decision Support (SIAD -Sistema Integrado de Apoio a Decisão): a software package for data envelopment analysis model
Pesquisa Operacional
, p. 493 - 503 Posted: 2005
G A Antunes , G R Guedes
Risco de insolvência e risco sistemático: ralação teórica não verificada na BOVESPA. RAE (Edição Especial: Minas Gerais), v. 46, n. especial , p. 58 - 71 Posted: 2006
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,702
RANK
342,603
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies