Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inflexibility in Income Shifting: Implications, Detection and Remedies

28 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2019 Last revised: 1 Nov 2021

Arnt Hopland

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: October 14, 2021

Abstract

This study develops theory and discusses implications of inflexibility in tax-motivated income shifting. We show that inflexibility to adjust income-shifting strategies within a tax year in response to losses implies that income-shifting incentives are based on the expected rather than the statutory tax rate differential. This has important implications for empirical research as our finding suggests that using the statutory tax rate differential risks underestimating the tax sensitivity of income shifting. We propose several empirical remedies to mitigate the estimation bias stemming from inflexibility, whenever a direct test is not feasible. The remedies vary in their data requirements, which allows future work on tax sensitivities of income to take into account inflexibility.

Keywords: income shifting, losses, debt shifting, transfer prices

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H87

Suggested Citation:

Hopland, Arnt and Lisowsky, Petro and Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed and Schindler, Dirk, Inflexibility in Income Shifting: Implications, Detection and Remedies (October 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3327666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3327666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R T Ainsworth
VAT fraud and triangulation
Boston University School of Law Working Paper , p. 12 - 52 Posted: 2012
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2002
V Amrhein , S Greenland
Remove, rather than redefine, statistical significance
Nature Human Behaviour , volume 2 Posted: 2018
M Auerbach
IKEA: Flat Pack Tax Avoidance. The Greens/EFA Group in the European Parliament Posted: 2016
Load more
8 Citations
기호 최 , 지선 유
국제조세 규제 변화와 국가 간 소득이전 관련 최근 실증연구 동향*
Korean Accounting Journal , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 85 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Kai A. Konrad
Dynamics of the Market for Corporate Tax-Avoidance Advice
Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2018-4 · 35 Pages · Posted: 24 May 2018 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ZERO DENG
Foreign Exchange Risk, Hedging, and Tax‐Motivated Outbound Income Shifting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 953 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Katharina Nicolay , Hannah Nusser , Olena Pfeiffer
On the Interdependency of Profit Shifting Channels and the Effectiveness of Anti-Avoidance Legislation
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 17-066 · 54 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 240
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,776
RANK
371,877
8 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies