Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Obligations of Entities Under Liquidation: Reflections From the European Court of Justice

(2019) 60 Goods and Service Tax Reports (Journal) 8-12

5 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2019 Last revised: 22 Apr 2022

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: January 28, 2019

Abstract

The European Court of Justice (‘ECJ’) recently examined the statutory provisions in the context of European Value Added Tax (‘VAT’) regulations to opine upon the extent of restrictions that can be imposed upon entities which are under liquidation.

This decision addresses a situation wherein the entity under liquidation nonetheless continues to carry out taxable supplies. In particular the right of deduction of input tax and the likely restrictions which can be imposed on such entities is considered.

The ECJ interpreted the provision in a manner which, while safeguarding the interests of revenue, ensure that unnecessary restrictions are not placed on business which continue their activities notwithstanding the liquidation proceedings.

Keywords: VAT, Liquidation

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, VAT Obligations of Entities Under Liquidation: Reflections From the European Court of Justice (January 28, 2019). (2019) 60 Goods and Service Tax Reports (Journal) 8-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3329846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
B B A B Ll
London School of Economics
Supreme Court of India ; LL.M. (Taxation)
Wind Inovation 1" EOOD v. Direktor na Direktsia "Obzhalvane i danachnoosiguritelna praktika" -Sofia (C-552/16, decision dated Posted: 2017-11-09
European Community Value Added Tax Directive No. 2006/112/EC , p. 28 - 39
Under article 168 of the EC VAT Directive
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,011
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies