Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Variation in the Outcomes of Tax Appeals Between Special Commissioners: An Empirical Study

[2013] (2) British Tax Review 154-174

21 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2019

Michael Blackwell

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: February 19, 2013

Abstract

This article uses statistical techniques to model the variation between tribunal members in the outcome of appeals to the Special Commissioners, the tribunal which generally heard the most complex first-instance direct tax appeals, controlling for factors associated with the complexity of the case and the area of tax law. It identifies substantial variation between Special Commissioners and examines whether such variation can be attributable to the professional background of tribunal members. The consequences of the uncertainty generated by such variation are considered, including its impact on the operation of the draft GAAR. This article is based on a dataset, assembled by the author, of all the 746 decisions made by the Special Commissioners between 1995 (when their decisions were first reported) until 2009 (when their jurisdiction was transferred to the new tribunal structure).

Keywords: special commissioners, judicial decision making, tax, litigation

JEL Classification: K41, K34, H2

Suggested Citation:

Blackwell, Michael, Variation in the Outcomes of Tax Appeals Between Special Commissioners: An Empirical Study (February 19, 2013). [2013] (2) British Tax Review 154-174, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3337780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J Rasbash , C Charlton , W Browne , M Healy , B Cameron
MLwiN, Version 2.1 (Bristol: Centre for Multilevel Modelling
G Leckie , C Charlton
runmlwin: Stata module for fitting multilevel models in the MLwiN software package Posted: 2011
Crossref
Browne
, volume 44
Crossref
Special Commissioner presiding at the hearing", see Special Commissioners (Jurisdiction and Procedure) Regulations 1994 (SI 1994/1811), reg , volume 18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,045
RANK
521,427
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies