Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-border Effects of a Major Tax Reform - Evidence from the European Stock Market

46 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019 Last revised: 2 Dec 2020

Michael Overesch

Universität zu Köln

Max Pflitsch

Technical University of Dortmund

Date Written: October 27, 2020

Abstract

We analyze the effects of the major U.S. tax reform of 2017 on European firms. While foreign firms that are active in the respective country should be directly affected, other foreign firms could also be indirectly affected through competition. With an event study design, we analyze stock market returns in Europe around key dates in the legislative process leading to the TCJA. We find positive market returns for the European firms that are active in the United States. Moreover, our results suggest an indirect effect through competition. European firms that face strong competition from U.S. firms in their domestic markets exhibit significantly lower returns.

Keywords: U.S. tax reform, stock returns, event study, cross-border effects, international competition

JEL Classification: G12, G14, H25

Suggested Citation:

Overesch, Michael and Pflitsch, Max, Cross-border Effects of a Major Tax Reform - Evidence from the European Stock Market (October 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3342182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3342182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Joshua Aizenman , Menzie D Chinn , Hiro Ito
Monetary Policy Spillovers and the Trilemma in the New Normal: Periphery Country Sensitivity to Core Country Conditions
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 68 , p. 298 - 330 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Blanchard , Christopher G Olivier , Mohammad R Collins , Thomas Jahan-Parvar , Beth Anne Pellet , Wilson
Why has the Stock Market Risen So Much Since the US Presidential Election?
International Finance Discussion Papers Posted: 2018
Crossref
Paul J Bolster , B Lawrence , Andrew Lindsey , Mitrusi
Tax-Induced Trading: The Effect of the 1986 Tax Reform Act on Stock Market Activity
The Journal of Finance , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 344 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Sebastien Bradley , Estelle Dauchy , Makoto Hasegawa
Investor Valuations of Japan's Adoption of a Territorial Tax Regime: Quantifying the Direct and Competitive Effects of International Tax Reform
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 630 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Fabio B. Gaertner , Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Braden M. Williams
Making Only America Great? Non-U.S. Market Reactions to U.S. Tax Reform
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 2 , p. 687 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Huabing Wang , Anne Macy
Thanks, neighbor! Stock market experience around significant European tax cuts
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,006
RANK
280,691
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies