Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the Haves Come Out Ahead in Tax Litigation? An Empirical Study of the Dynamics of Tax Appeals in the UK.

39 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2019

Michael Blackwell

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: November 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper considers which parties appeal in tax cases and which parties win such appeals. It adapts party capability theory to derive hypotheses concerning the relative advantages of (certain types of) taxpayers and HMRC, and how this may be affected by institutional factors, such as requirements for permission to appeal, and factors associated with the resources of the parties, such as legal representation. These hypotheses are then tested, using statistical methods, on a dataset assembled by the author of all appeals (including further appeals) from Special Commissioners' decisions since 1981. In doing such this paper both questions what the functions of an appeal system are, and whether the appeal system satisfies these, as well as addressing the question of whether certain large corporates enjoy favoured treatment by HMRC, which has been a recent issue of public concern in the UK.

Keywords: Tax Litigation

JEL Classification: H2, K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Blackwell, Michael, Do the Haves Come Out Ahead in Tax Litigation? An Empirical Study of the Dynamics of Tax Appeals in the UK. (November 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3345239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3345239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
The Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Galanter
Why the haves come out ahead: Speculations on the limits of legal change
Crossref
Law & Soc'y Rev , volume 95 , p. 118 - 127
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,208
RANK
366,348
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies