Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Modern Case For Withholding

53 UC Davis Law Review 81 (2019)

UNC Legal Studies Research Paper

64 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2019 Last revised: 19 Nov 2019

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Date Written: March 5, 2019

Abstract

Who is responsible for paying taxes to the government? Currently, the answer depends on one’s employment status. Employees enjoy the luxury of not having to think about tax remittance during the year because their employers withhold taxes from their paychecks. Non-employees, on the other hand, face a much more onerous system. They must keep track of and budget for taxes during the year, make quarterly remittances to the IRS, and may face penalties for failing to do so. Although this regime has been in place for many decades, there are several reasons why reform may be in order.

First, the independent contractor workforce is expanding, propelled in large part by the growth of the gig economy. This means an increasing number of taxpayers are earning income outside of employment that is not captured by withholding. Second, the rise of the Internet and other advances in technology has made withholding by third parties more efficient and less costly than was historically the case. Finally, advances in the social sciences have shed new light on why many taxpayers appear to prefer withholding and why it may serve to enhance overall welfare.

Accordingly, this Article proposes an expanded withholding regime that would condition withholding on the income of the payer, rather than on the employment relationship. Under such a regime, any business of a certain size paying more than a de minimis number of workers would be required to withhold taxes. To address cases where withholding would not be feasible, this Article also introduces the concept of “quasi-withholding.” Quasi-withholding would interject a private third party between the taxpayer and the IRS to facilitate tax payments and replicate the benefits associated with withholding. The third party could be a financial institution or a private business formed specifically to assist with tax remittance. Expanding withholding would vastly simplify the tax system for taxpayers, while enhancing revenue collection for the government, presenting a rare “win-win” opportunity for tax reform.

Keywords: taxation, tax policy, income tax, withholding, tax administration, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: E62, H20, H21,H22, H24, H25, H26, H29, H30, K34, A12, K42, K34, O33, O35, O38, J38, J30

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney, The Modern Case For Withholding (March 5, 2019). 53 UC Davis Law Review 81 (2019), UNC Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Tax York , Found , Reviewing Different
METHODS OF CALCULATING TAX COMPLIANCE COSTS , volume 3 Posted: 2018-08
Crossref
Pricing, GUSTO , volume 27 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Onpay Pricing
, volume 27 Posted: 2019
Full Service Payroll , volume 27 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,796
RANK
187,977
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of North Carolina Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies