Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from Pakistan

NBER Working Paper No. w25623

73 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2019 Last revised: 5 Jan 2025

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Obeid Ur Rehman

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Department of Economics

Mazhar Waseem

University of Manchester

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

We examine two Pakistani programs to explore the role of deterrence as well as social and psychological factors in the tax compliance behavior of agents. In the first of these programs, the government began revealing income tax paid by every taxpayer in the country. The second program publicly recognizes and rewards the top 100 tax paying corporations, partnerships, self-employed individuals, and wage-earners. We find that both public disclosure and social recognition of top taxpayers caused a substantial increase in tax payments. We explore the drivers of this behavior, including the shift of social norms toward compliance.

Suggested Citation:

Slemrod, Joel B. and Ur Rehman, Obeid and Waseem, Mazhar, Pecuniary and Non-Pecuniary Motivations for Tax Compliance: Evidence from Pakistan (February 2019). NBER Working Paper No. w25623, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
G A , K , R E
Economics and Identity. Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
2 Difference-in-differences Coefficient
Tax Year Coefficient 95% Confidence Posted: 2007
2 Difference-in-differences Coefficient
Tax Year Coefficient 95% Confidence Interval C: Bottom Vs. Top Quartile D: Bottom Vs Posted: 2007
2 Difference-in-differences Coefficient
Tax Year Coefficient 95% Confidence Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies