Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Tech: Risks of an Australian Digital Services Tax under International Economic Law

Melbourne Journal of International Law, Forthcoming, 2019

34 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2019

No Name

Monash University - Faculty of Law

Tania Voon

University of Melbourne - Law School

Jarrod Hepburn

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: February 23, 2019

Abstract

Along with many other countries, Australia is considering implementing a tax on digital services to try to capture more of the revenues of digital businesses, which may operate without a substantial physical presence in the country. Although traditional approaches to tax may need wholesale revision to adjust to the digitalisation of the global economy, these changes are best pursued through a multilateral process, which is already ongoing through the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the G20, and in which Australia is participating. An interim Australian digital services tax risks breaching Australia’s obligations under international economic law: namely international trade law and international investment law. The relevant trade and investment rules contain certain flexibilities, including some specific references to taxation, that might assist in justifying such a tax. However, the overarching problem that may lead to a breach of at least some of the relevant treaties is that an Australian digital services tax is likely to burden United States businesses disproportionately, particularly if smaller businesses are exempt as is envisaged. In the current global economic and political climate, provoking retaliation of the United States or further closing of national economies through the imposition of an Australian digital services tax is undesirable.

Keywords: Australia, international law, investment law, tax, trade law, services, WTO

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Name, No and Voon, Tania and Hepburn, Jarrod, Taxing Tech: Risks of an Australian Digital Services Tax under International Economic Law (February 23, 2019). Melbourne Journal of International Law, Forthcoming, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3347655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Methanex Corporation v USA (UNCITRAL), Final Award Posted: 2005-08-03
Crossref
Alex Genin V Estonia
This discrimination claim was, however, made under a different BIT provision
Award , volume 369 Posted: 2001-06-25
A G Siemens , Argentina
, volume 321 Posted: 2007-02
Canada Bilcon V
Award on Jurisdiction and Liability , volume 719 Posted: 2015-03-17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,697
RANK
116,469
4 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies