Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Firm Risk: New Insights from a Latent Class Mixture Model

The Accounting Review

52 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2019 Last revised: 23 Jun 2023

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine the relations between tax avoidance and two components of firm risk (priced risk and idiosyncratic risk) using latent class mixture models. OLS regressions suggest that tax avoidance is negatively related to both priced risk and idiosyncratic risk. However, results from latent class mixture models reveal that 35.6 (58) percent of the sample exhibits a significant positive association between tax avoidance and priced (idiosyncratic) risk and firm characteristics are strikingly different across the latent classes. We use these differences to develop parsimonious models to predict latent class assignments, which we then use to demonstrate that firms predicted to have a positive relation between tax avoidance and priced risk or idiosyncratic risk have larger additions to tax reserves, larger payouts to tax authorities, and are more likely to experience negative tax-related news coverage over the following three years.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, uncertainty, priced risk, idiosyncratic risk, latent class mixture model

JEL Classification: M41, G12, D81

Suggested Citation:

Hutchens, Michelle and Rego, Sonja O. and Williams, Brian, Tax Avoidance and Firm Risk: New Insights from a Latent Class Mixture Model (May 1, 2023). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3348559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3348559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency , volume 94 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
P Barroso , M Boons , P Karehnke
Time-varying state variable risk premia in the ICAPM
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , issue 2 , p. 428 - 451 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,836
RANK
29,764
4 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies