Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re: Public Consultation Document: Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalisation of the Economy (13 February-6 March, 2019)

16 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2019 Last revised: 26 Apr 2019

Dhruv Janssen-Sanghavi

Maastricht University, Faculty of Law

Julia Uchańska

Maastricht University, Faculty of Law, Students

Pál Sóvág

Maastricht University, Faculty of Law, Students

Date Written: March 6, 2019

Abstract

The need for a global response to the challenges presented by the digitalisation of the economy has been magnified due to various unilateral "interim" measures that countries have begun to adopt. This is because these unilateral measures could fall outside the scope of tax treaties, and result in harmful double taxation. The OECD's public consultation document proposes to design such a global response by amending the existing nexus and profit allocation rules.

The terms “nexus rules” and “profit allocation” can be viewed from two perspectives: a. tax claims made by countries under their internal tax laws; and b. restrictions imposed on these claims by tax treaties. It is generally acknowledged that countries, in the exercise of their sovereignty, are free to claim taxing rights in any manner as they may deem fit, although their ability to enforce them may be limited in the case of cross-border scenarios. Given the abundance of ways in which countries may seek to tax their residents and non-residents’ income (whether it emanates from their participation in the digital economy or otherwise), the ends of harmonisation and certainty seem best served through the medium of income tax treaties.

This contribution reviews the proposals made in the public consultation document from the perspective of tax treaties.

Keywords: Digital Economy, Nexus Rules, Profit Allocation, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, BEPS, OECD, Digitalisation, BEPS Action 1, TFDE, Inclusive Framework

Suggested Citation:

Janssen-Sanghavi, Dhruv and Uchańska, Julia and Sóvág, Pál, Re: Public Consultation Document: Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalisation of the Economy (13 February-6 March, 2019) (March 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
340,955
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies