Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Double Tax Treaties on Inward FDI in ASEAN Countries

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Vol. 7, No. 1 Paper No: 2019-S-92

34 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2019

Yue Dong

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 8, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to assess the impact of double taxation treaties (DTT) on FDI inflows in 10 ASEAN countries from 1989 to 2016. There are two objectives of double taxation treaties. The first one is to alleviate the problem of global double taxation, which has a stimulating effect on FDI. The second objective is the sharing of information between governments, which can prevent tax evasion and thus discourage FDI. The findings suggest that new DTTs in ASEAN have a positive but insignificant impact on the FDI inflows into the region. However, the impact of old DTTs on FDI is significantly negative, suggesting that as the age of ASEAN countries’ DTTs could adversely affect FDI inflows. The possible explanation is that most of the ASEAN member countries are developing countries, which have experienced fiscal and regulatory reforms over the past few decades. Those policy reforms may have overtaken the terms of the prevailing bilateral tax treaty, meaning that some of the treaties, if not ratified, could have become obsolete. In addition, the recent trend in bilateral tax treaty negotiations globally has been towards lower withholding tax rates for investment income. Older treaties, which impose relatively high withholding tax rates, may become an impediment to the region’s cross-border investment and hinder economic growth. An examination of the DTTs signed by ASEAN countries further demonstrates that the member states vary considerably in the design of their treaties, in the way they divide up the tax base between source and resident countries, and also in the level of efforts to keep pace with the latest development in the OECD and UN Model Tax Conventions.

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Yue, The Impact of Double Tax Treaties on Inward FDI in ASEAN Countries (March 8, 2019). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Vol. 7, No. 1 Paper No: 2019-S-92, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Rafaelita M Aldaba
FDI Investment Incentive System and FDI Inflows: the Philippine Experience
Research Paper Series RPS 2007-03 Posted: 2008
Investing in ASEAN 2017
Allurentis Limited and ASEAN Posted: 2017
Asean Secretariat
ASEAN Investment Report 2016: Foreign Direct Investment and MSME Linkages Posted: 2016
Asean Secretariat
ASEAN Investment Report 2017: Foreign Direct Investment and Economic Zones in ASEAN Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
807
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,324
RANK
70,218
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies