Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Step Forward for Tax Dispute Resolution between China and ASEAN Countries under the Belt and Road Initiative

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Vol. 7, No. 1 Paper No: 2019-S-93

24 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2019

Xu Diheng

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 8, 2019

Abstract

China has a closer business relationship with Southeast Asian countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). To ensure tax certainty for the investment, it is necessary to establish an effective and efficient tax dispute resolution mechanism. The mutual agreement procedure (MAP) is the primary means, but it has its limitations, especially for countries in this region. Arbitration could be a powerful complementary to the MAP. China has established a new BRI Court-connected and Mediation Centre (Centre) that aims to resolve commercial disputes in this region. It seems like a new alternative for resolving tax disputes since it combines mediation with arbitration. This article analyzes the pros and cons of adopting arbitration as a complementary means to the MAP in this region. It further discusses the advantages and concerns for the Centre. Although the Centre encourages using mediation to resolve disputes, which could address problems of direct arbitration, it is difficult to maintain impartiality from its current rough rules and its position. This article makes suggestions on improving the mechanism to guarantee the impartiality by selecting mediators and arbitrators with knowledge of the region, endowing disputants the right to appeal, and increasing transparency.

Suggested Citation:

Diheng, Xu, A Step Forward for Tax Dispute Resolution between China and ASEAN Countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (March 8, 2019). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Vol. 7, No. 1 Paper No: 2019-S-93, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3349398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3349398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
R Chen
In the first month of the establishment of the international commercial arbitration centre in Shenzhen, it has accepted 274 cases, and 32 has been settled by arbitration. 64 "The Central Deep Restructuring Committee Reviewed and Approved the Opinions on Establishing a Belt and Road Dispute Settlement Mechanism and Institutions
Shenzhen Takes the Lead to Establish a Belt and Road International Commercial Dispute Resolution Platform Posted: 2018-01-24
G Wang
The Belt and Road Initiative in Quest for A Dispute Resolution Mechanism
Asia Pacific Law Review , volume 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
D Van Hout
Is Mediation the Panacea to the Profusion of Tax Disputes?
World Tax Journal , volume 43 Posted: 2018
Ibid
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,993
RANK
318,636
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies