Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixing Philanthropy: A Vision for Charitable Giving and Reform

Tax Notes, Vol. 162, No. 9, p. 1007, 2019

10 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2019 Last revised: 19 Apr 2019

Roger Colinvaux

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Columbus School of Law

Date Written: March 4, 2019

Abstract

Philanthropy means to give for the benefit of others. Unfortunately for philanthropy and civil society, the laws supporting philanthropy are in a state of crisis. More by happenstance than design, the law now caters overwhelmingly to the whims of wealthy donors to the detriment of those in need. We find ourselves with a legal framework ostensibly designed to promote broad-based philanthropic activity, but which is better described as one where the wealthiest get tax benefits that are unavailable to others; claim those (sometimes questionable) benefits while retaining effective control over donated funds; and use the system to advance their policy preferences, avoid scrutiny, and undermine the centuries-old faith and trust that our nation’s charities represent the public good. Although the trends are dire, the article explains how Congress can restore credibility to philanthropy with a number of legislative initiatives, including by broadening the base for charitable giving with an expanded and reformed giving incentive, improving the flow of money to working charities with new rules for donor advised funds (DAFs), strengthening and supporting IRS oversight, and by revisiting some of the rushed through ideas of recent tax legislation (the TCJA).

Keywords: charity, charitable deduction, in-kind contributions, DAFs, johnson amendment, reform, e-filing

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H24, K34

Suggested Citation:

Colinvaux, Roger, Fixing Philanthropy: A Vision for Charitable Giving and Reform (March 4, 2019). Tax Notes, Vol. 162, No. 9, p. 1007, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Thien-Nam Dinh
Universal Basic Philanthropy: A Scalable Model to Democratize Social Impact
10 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ellen P. Aprill
The Private Foundation Excise Tax on Self-Dealing: Contours, Comparisons, and Character
Pittsburgh Tax Review, Forthcoming, Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-01 · 41 Pages · Posted: 14 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 2 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 333
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jillian Grennan
Social Change through Financial Innovation: Evidence from Donor-advised Funds
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies 11, 694–735., · 53 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2021 · Last revised: 28 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 267
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,865
RANK
139,412
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies