Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy and Tax Aggressiveness in Brazil

29 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Bruno Afonso Ferreira

Fucape Business School

Date Written: March 17, 2019

Abstract

This study is designed to verify the strategic types and the relationship between prospector and defender companies and tax aggressiveness for Brazilian companies listed on the B3. To identify the type, following concepts from Miles and Snow (1978, 2003), we use five years of data. Excluding financial companies, prospectors and defenders were identified, which were used later to verify the relation with tax aggressiveness. Most Brazilian companies are analyzers, with prospector companies being a minority, and defenders representing a little over 21%. Defender companies have a higher tendency to practice aggressive tax planning when compare to Analyzer and Prospector.

Keywords: Strategy, Prospector, Defender, Analyzer, Tax Aggressiveness

JEL Classification: M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Ferreira, Bruno Afonso, Business Strategy and Tax Aggressiveness in Brazil (March 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3354107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Kathleen Ann Bentley Goode , Thomas C. Omer , Brady J. Twedt
Does Business Strategy Impact a Firm's Information Environment?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming Pages: 43 Posted: 16 Oct 2012 Last revised: 27 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Blaylock , T Shevlin , R J Wilson
Tax avoidance, large positive temporary book-tax differences, and earnings persistence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 120 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Bird , S A Karolyi
Governance and taxes: Evidence from regression discontinuity
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 50 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J K Castro , L Flach
O gerenciamento tributário relacionado ao desempenho das empresas: um estudo nas empresas listadas no nível 1 de governança corporativa da BM&FBOVESPA. SEMEAD Seminários em Administração Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,898
RANK
314,322
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies