Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Companies’ Initial Estimates of the One-Time Transition Tax Imposed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming (https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-2021-021)

47 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2019 Last revised: 20 May 2022

Shannon Chen

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Matthew Erickson

Virginia Tech

Michelle Harding

Virginia Tech

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 6, 2022

Abstract

We use the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as a setting to offer new insights into companies’ tax accruals. We examine companies’ estimates of the mandatory one-time transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings. We exploit the one-year measurement period provided by SAB 118 during which companies could adjust their initial transition tax estimates to examine how companies’ information gathering and processing costs affect these estimates. We find more accurate initial estimates for companies (1) with political access, (2) with less busy financial statement auditors, and (3) who previously accrued estimated incremental U.S. tax on foreign earnings. Finally, we find companies with incentives to manage external perceptions that they pay their “fair share” of tax are more likely to overstate their initial transition tax estimates. Our study provides evidence of cross-sectional differences in companies’ financial reporting of income taxes during a politically sensitive time.

Keywords: Accounting for Income Taxes; Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; Bias

JEL Classification: H2, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shannon and Erickson, Matthew and Harding, Michelle and Stomberg, Bridget and Xia, Junwei, Companies’ Initial Estimates of the One-Time Transition Tax Imposed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (April 6, 2022). Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming (https://doi.org/10.2308/JATA-2021-021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3355011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3355011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Who we are. Alliance for Competitive Taxation Posted: 2020
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Managerial overconfidence and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
C Austin , R Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,533
RANK
172,550
11 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies