Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Havens and the Need for Their Internationally-Coordinated Regulation

North Carolina Journal of Law and Technology, Vol. 20, 2019, Forthcoming

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2019-14

32 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2019

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 20, 2019

Abstract

This paper describes the rise of a new form of regulatory havens. Jurisdictions that have traditionally been characterized as “tax havens” are gradually becoming hubs for blockchain-based ventures. These jurisdictions attract blockchain entrepreneurs by offering refuge from regulatory and tax burdens imposed by developed economies. These new “Blockchain Havens” create a regulatory “race to the bottom” that is traditionally associated with the world of international tax evasion and avoidance. Over the past several years, developed economies have put to use—mostly through coordinated efforts—several regulatory frameworks aimed to address some of the negative effects of tax havens. These regulatory instruments are aimed against the haven jurisdictions themselves, or the private institutions operating in such jurisdictions. However, this paper argues that the unique nature of blockchain-based technology—most importantly, decentralization and temper resistance—makes such traditional anti tax haven policies ineffective in the blockchain context. This paper argues that coordinated international regulatory policies must be quickly developed to address certain important aspects of blockchain technology. Such coordination is necessary to prevent an uncontrolled regulatory race to the bottom, while at the same time preserving the benefits of blockchain-based applications.


Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Blockchain Havens and the Need for Their Internationally-Coordinated Regulation (March 20, 2019). North Carolina Journal of Law and Technology, Vol. 20, 2019, Forthcoming, UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2019-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3357168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,843
RANK
147,152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies