Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Progressivity in Australia: Facts, Measurements and Estimates

Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, Working paper 5/2019

68 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2019

Chung Tran

Australian National University (ANU) - School of Economics

Nabeeh Zakariyya

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

We study the progressivity of Australia’s personal income tax system after the introduction of a New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999. We use two data sets: administrative data from Australian Tax Office (ATO) 2004-16 and survey data from the Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) survey 2001-16. We first document the distributions of income and tax liabilities, properties of the joint distributions of taxes paid and income, and discuss how taxes are varied across households and over time. We next provide estimates of tax progressivity using two approaches: one based on tax liability progression and one based on tax liability distribution relative to income distribution. The result obtained from the tax progression approach implies a significant decline in the average level of tax progressivity since 2004. Meanwhile, the result obtained from the tax distribution approach indicates a tax progressivity cycle with a modest decline up to 2006, then a sharp increase until 2010, and a slight decline thereafter. The personal income tax cuts for all taxpayers in early 2000s and the introduction of tax offset for low income earners (LITO) are main driving forces. Moreover, the evolution of income distribution and its interactions with bracket creep strongly affect the overall progressivity level of Australia’s income tax system. Hence, our findings provide new insights into the dynamics of income growth and tax progressivity, which has implications for tax policy debates in Australia.

Keywords: taxation, progressiveness, income dynamics, inequality, parametric tax function, Suits index, Kakwani index

JEL Classification: E62, H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Chung and Zakariyya, Nabeeh, Tax Progressivity in Australia: Facts, Measurements and Estimates (March 26, 2019). Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, Working paper 5/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3360047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies