Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Compliance Costs and Investments

55 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019 Last revised: 28 Jun 2023

Jesse van der Geest

Tilburg University

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: June 15, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effects of tax compliance costs on firms’ investment. While reducing compliance
costs is an important tax policy objective, there is little empirical evidence regarding the investment
effects of such actions. Using two different settings, we show that lower compliance costs increase
firms’ investment. This effect is more pronounced among smaller firms and financially constrained
firms. We further find that lower compliance costs are associated with more foreign direct
investment and entrepreneurial activity. Our findings imply that reducing compliance costs can
have positive investment effects and that tax administration reforms can play an important role in
achieving compliance cost gains.

Keywords: Compliance costs, investment, tax administration

JEL Classification: D22, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

van der Geest, Jesse and Jacob, Martin, Corporate Tax Compliance Costs and Investments (June 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3363684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
B Akitoby , A Baum , C Hackney , O Harrison , K Primus , V Salins
Tax revenue mobilization episodes in developing countries
Policy Design and Practice , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2022
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,046
RANK
218,252
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies