Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The TCJA and the Questionable Incentive to Incorporate

Tax Notes, March 4, 2019, P. 977.

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 19-12

12 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2019

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: March 4, 2019

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) has put the question should a business be organized as a pass through entity or as a corporation at center stage. The TCJA eliminated much of the tax disadvantage from using the corporate form, but did Congress go so far that it advantaged corporations relative to pass-through entities? Some prominent commentators say yes. They argue that the federal income tax now encourages individual owners of pass-through businesses to restructure their business as sub-chapter C corporations, and they predict that the TCJA will lead to a cascade of incorporations. The principal driver of the shift to the corporate form is said to be high-bracket owners of successful businesses using their new corporations as “pocket books” through which to invest in and hold portfolio assets that they would otherwise hold on personal account. The benefit is the deferral of the personal tax on such income and hence a reduction in the present value of that tax. This essay, the first of a two-part series, argues that there generally are no tax benefits from converting and investing in portfolio assets through a corporation. That is because the corporate tax on the invested income more than compensates for the deferral of the individual level tax on that income. The second essay in this series extends the argument to consider other provisions in the tax law that could potentially change that result and argues that any benefits from converting from a pass through entity to a C corporation at present are modest at best.

Keywords: federal income taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, TCJA, passthrough entities, mass conversion, C corporations, comparison, top statutory tax rates, rate changes, passthrough deduction, deferral of income, consumption and investment with different entities, basic and tax equivalence

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., The TCJA and the Questionable Incentive to Incorporate (March 4, 2019). Tax Notes, March 4, 2019, P. 977., U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 19-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,576
RANK
456,685
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies