Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Only America Great? Non-U.S. Market Reactions to U.S. Tax Reform

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-15

53 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2019 Last revised: 10 Dec 2019

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 16, 2019

Abstract

We study the foreign externalities of the recent U.S. tax reform, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Specifically, we examine foreign firms’ stock returns around key tax reform events. We find significant heterogeneity in market responses by country, industry, and firm. Chinese firms experience large negative returns; especially steel, business equipment, and chemical manufacturers; while the rest of the world experiences positive returns. Firms operating in more differentiated product markets experience positive returns, while firms in financial distress experience negative returns, consistent with the TCJA having competitive repercussions. We also find that firms experiencing decreases in effective tax rates following tax reform experience positive returns. Overall, our results suggest that the TCJA had varied, yet systematic effects on foreign firms’ shareholders’ wealth and the global competitive landscape.

Keywords: Political Economy, Corporate Tax, Competition, Tax Reform, TCJA

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gaertner, Fabio B. and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Williams, Braden, Making Only America Great? Non-U.S. Market Reactions to U.S. Tax Reform (July 16, 2019). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3363006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3363006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
D Bernard
Is the risk of product market predation a cost of disclosure?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 2015
Crossref
O Blanchard , C G Collins , M R Jahan-Parvar , T Pellet , B A Wilson
A year of rising dangerously? The U.S. stock market performance in the aftermath of the presidential election
Journal of Policy Modeling , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 502 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Richard Carrizosa , Fabio B. Gaertner , Dan Lynch
Debt and Taxes? The Effect of TCJA Interest Limitations on Capital Structure
Pages: 45 Posted: 14 Jun 2019 Last revised: 11 Sep 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,927
RANK
133,890
31 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies