Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Taxation of Advertising in Platform Markets

36 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019

C. Matthew Shi

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Taxation of advertising has been a recurring policy idea in recent U.S. tax reforms and around the globe. In this paper we take a comprehensive look at the effects of taxation of ads on prices, welfare, and the business model of media platforms. In particular, we study the effects of different tax instruments under different market structures and business models and distinct assumptions about consumers' ad preference, all in a unified theoretical framework. We present a set of results that both synthesize some of the existing ones and contain many new discoveries. In mixed-financed platform markets, taxation of ads reduces welfare and platform profits regardless of how consumers view ads. When consumers dislike ads, taxes lead to lower total profits but higher profits on the subscription side. On pure ad-financed platforms, even though taxes can increase the customer base, advertisers are still worse off. Different tax instruments produce qualitatively the same results under consumer ad aversion but may generate opposite effects with ad-seeking consumers.

Keywords: taxation of advertising, media platforms, two-sided markets, ad preference, imperfect competition

JEL Classification: D43, H22, H23, L13

Suggested Citation:

Shi, Ce Matthew, Effects of Taxation of Advertising in Platform Markets (August 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3366278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3366278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
S P Anderson
Regulation of Television Advertising
The Economic Regulation of Broadcasting Markets Posted: 2007
Crossref
S P Anderson , S Coate
Market Provision of Broadcasting: A Welfare Analysis
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 947 - 972 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S P Anderson , A Palma , B Keider
Tax Incidence in Differentiated Product Oligopoly , volume 81 , p. 173 - 92 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S P Anderson , B Jullien
The Advertising-Financed Business Model in Two-Sided Media Markets
Handbook of Media Economics , volume 1 , p. 41 - 90 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,878
RANK
231,675
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies