Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Earnings Management: Natural Experiment Evidence from Staggered Changes in State Corporate Tax Rates

Posted: 2 May 2019

G. Nathan Dong

Boston College - Department of Finance

Lan Xu

University of Delaware

Date Written: April 6, 2019

Abstract

We provide evidence on how statutory corporate tax rate changes affect income-shifting behavior. Our difference-in-differences identification strategy exploits the 112 staggered changes in corporate income tax rates across the 33 U.S. states during the period 1989-2012. We find that accounting earnings are more likely to be managed upward in response to state tax cuts and more significantly among firms with higher prior-year return on assets. Most firms do not manage earnings downward in response to tax increases, probably because significant tax increases usually occur when states are fiscally constrained and downward smoothing of reported earnings can certainly draw scrutiny from cash-strapped state governments. More importantly, firms had higher ROA but experienced lower stock returns prior to tax cuts do use discretionary accruals to increase earnings in the year of the tax cut and reduce earnings in the year of the tax rise, a strategy that improves returns to shareholders. This evidence suggests that firms often trade off the tax benefits of earnings management to maximize firm value for a lower risk of being detected by the regulators and other market participants.

Keywords: corporate income tax, earnings management, natural experiment

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Gang Nathan and Xu, Lan, Taxation and Earnings Management: Natural Experiment Evidence from Staggered Changes in State Corporate Tax Rates (April 6, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3367855
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,211
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies