Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining an Asset's Tax Basis in the Absence of A Meaningful Transfer Tax Regime

10 Colum J. Tax L 49, 2018

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2019-34

23 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Richard Schmalbeck

Duke University School of Law

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

In yesteryear, at death, taxpayers confronted a Janus-faced tax system: on the one hand, they had to endure a harsh transfer tax regime that could significantly deplete the size of their estates; on the other hand, they could take solace in the fact that the income tax system erased their taxable gains vis-à-vis a rule that the tax basis of their assets would equal fair market value. For close to a century, as taxpayers sought to diminish their transfer tax burden, for estate tax reporting purposes, they minimized their asset values; this strategy negated the possibility that the basis equal to fair market rule might be exploited.

But this is no longer the case. For all intents and purposes, through the introduction of significant exemptions and lower tax rates, Congress has emasculated the nation’s transfer tax system. What remains is a transfer tax system teetering on oblivion and unable to keep the basis equal to fair market value rule in check. This has opened the door for taxpayers and their executors and administrators to take measures which result in asset basis maximization, and the IRS lacks the tools and resources to stop them. Congress must therefore institute reforms or risk a severe narrowing of the tax base.


Keywords: Tax, Tax Basis, Estate Tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay and Schmalbeck, Richard L., Determining an Asset's Tax Basis in the Absence of A Meaningful Transfer Tax Regime (December 1, 2018). 10 Colum J. Tax L 49, 2018, Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2019-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
RANK
687,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies