Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Who Speaks for Tax Equity and Tax Fairness?': Stanley Surrey and the Tax Legislative Process

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 39, No. 1, 2019

72 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019 Last revised: 16 Dec 2019

George K. Yin

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: December 3, 2019

Abstract


This article examines and assesses Stanley Surrey’s view of the federal tax legislative process. One of the most influential tax professionals of the twentieth century, Surrey is likely best known for his advocacy of specific tax policy ideas. But Surrey saw legislation as the prime route for adoption of most of his ideas, and he thus focused and provided many commentaries on the tax legislative process. He drew on extensive experience with the process, serving two lengthy terms (almost 20 years) in the Treasury Department, and remaining closely involved with it throughout his academic years.

This article shows that Surrey’s faith in expertise and fierce commitment to tax equity and fairness led him to believe that Treasury should play the dominant role in the legislative process. He never wavered in his belief even after his view was vigorously challenged by members of the Senate during his confirmation hearing to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy, and even following periods when he perceived the Treasury as not acting in the public’s interest. Treasury dominated the tax legislative process during the early years of the modern income tax but it never reached the same level of influence during Surrey’s lifetime. In fact, the changes in the process that Surrey experienced generally moved it further and further away from his preferred outcome. This article provides evidence that some of Surrey’s experiences with congressional staff during his first term in government played a formative role in his thinking. It also suggests that Surrey favored a top-down approach to the legislative process to facilitate adoption of Treasury’s views. The wisdom of that approach depends importantly on the substance of the proposals being considered.

Keywords: Surrey, tax legislative process, tax equity, Treasury Department

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H29, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Yin, George K., 'Who Speaks for Tax Equity and Tax Fairness?': Stanley Surrey and the Tax Legislative Process (December 3, 2019). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 39, No. 1, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Robert A See , The Caro , Years , Lyndon , Johnson
Robert A Caro , The Years , Lyndon , Johnson
Reportedly, Rayburn was also a "powerful and sympathetic ally
MASTER OF THE SENATE 157-58 Posted: 2002
Ronald L Heinemann , Harry Byrd , Virginia
, volume 392 Posted: 1996
Crossref
See Surrey, Memoir, supra note *, pt. FN-6
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies