Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform in Kazakhstan, 1993-95: A Cooperative Effort

Posted: 10 May 2019

Charles McLure

Hoover Institution; Stanford University

Date Written: April 9, 2019

Abstract

This article describes what representatives of the foreign organizations advising the Government of Kazakhstan on tax reform (the IMF, OECD, the EU, US Treasury Department, USAID, the law firm of Skadden Arps, and the International Tax and Investment Center (a tiny new non-profit organization) and their local counterparts did to create the new tax law. Also, it provides a “roadmap” to documents produced by these organizations and the Ministry that were donated to the Hoover Institution Archives at Stanford University in March 2019. Finally, it speculates on why the large tax reform organizations provided coordinated advice, without institutional jealousies getting in the way.

Keywords: Kazakhstan tax reform, institutional cooperation

JEL Classification: H24, H25, P35

Suggested Citation:

McLure, Charles, Tax Reform in Kazakhstan, 1993-95: A Cooperative Effort (April 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3372638
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
662
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies