Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Tax Thinking

USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 19-10

USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS19-10

30 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2019

Edward D. Kleinbard

University of Southern California Gould School of Law, Deceased

Date Written: April 17, 2019

Abstract

This presentation considers the aims of critical tax studies and offers three suggestions. First, critical tax papers too often fixate on taxes as both the problem and the solution. In many cases, in particular when progressivity is the aim, public spending is the better policy lever. Second, one should not concede that taxation imposes an inexorable tradeoff between efficiency and equity goals. This again understates the importance of the spending side of things. Taxes are a necessary cost of funding spending, and spending in turn, by reaching places where markets are incomplete, can have efficiency payoffs greater than the deadweight loss of taxation. That is, even a leaky bucket can extinguish a fire. To this end, recent research has pointed to the role of well-designed government spending in encouraging an “inclusive economy,” in which growth is both faster and more broadly shared than would otherwise be the case. Finally, the presentation urges that more work be done on the rhetoric of public finance economics. Both the structure and the vocabulary of standard presentations contained unexamined biases that color the outcomes of policy debates.

Suggested Citation:

Kleinbard, Edward D., Critical Tax Thinking (April 17, 2019). USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 19-10, USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS19-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3373965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3373965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Low-Tax Small-Government Country
• U S
tax as % of GDP lowest of major OECD countries • Includes federal, state and local • OECD average , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2016
• Cbo Jun
2017: federal tax revenues = 18.2% GDP next 10yrs • And post-TCJA federal revenues ≈ 17.5% GDP • Those taxes are shared across all income levels • Total tax system is modestly progressive • Government is big spender in only two areas • Defense: As much as next 8 countries combined • 36% of world spending
• Healthcare
Most inefficient system in world • USA -17.2% of GDP
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,139
RANK
204,172
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies