Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance and Investment Incentives: Firm Responses to Accelerated Depreciation in China

Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 21 May 2019 Last revised: 6 May 2020

Ziying Fan

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Public Economics & Administration

Yu Liu

Fudan University - School of Economics

Date Written: April 20, 2019

Abstract

We evaluate the effects of a Chinese accelerated depreciation policy that occurred in 2014 on firm investment. We present three findings. First, on average, the policy increased firms' investment in eligible capital, especially the purchase of equipment and machines. Second, the policy effects are stronger for larger firms, firms with more cash, and firms with better access to finance, which tend to be less financially constrained but have better tax compliance. Third, the effect magnitude increases with imputed county tax enforcement but decreases with provincial tax fraud rate. These results shed light on the importance of improving tax compliance in making tax incentives effective.

Keywords: tax compliance, tax incentives, accelerated depreciation, firm investment

JEL Classification: H32, D22

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Ziying and Liu, Yu, Tax Compliance and Investment Incentives: Firm Responses to Accelerated Depreciation in China (April 20, 2019). Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3374738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
James Alm , Yongzheng Liu , Kewei Zhang
Financial constraints and firm tax evasion
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 102 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
Investment Policies to Promote Growth , p. 157 - 184 Posted: 1992
Pierre Bachas , Roberto Fattal Jean , Anders Jaef , Jensen
Size-dependent Tax Enforcement and Compliance: Global Evidence and Aggregate Implications
Journal of Development Economics , volume 140 , p. 203 - 222 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Chong-En Bai , Chang-Tai Hsieh , Yingyi Qian
The Return to Capital in China
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Economic Studies Program , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 102 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,652
RANK
206,173
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies