Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Taxes in Promoting the Experience of Home for Tenants

Posted: 7 May 2019

Jonathan M. Barrett

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: April 23, 2019

Abstract

Tenants and owner-occupiers experience housing differently both in terms of wealth and consumption. An owner-occupied property is typically a person’s primary investment as well as a shelter, whereas a tenant also enjoys a roof over their head but does not share increases in value of the property they occupy. Furthermore, an owner-occupier typically enjoys non-financial benefits, including a sense of continuity and order in events (ontological security). In contrast, due to relatively weak legal protections in Australia and New Zealand, tenants often face ontological insecurity. These different experiences matter because owner-occupation is a normal aspiration, and has traditionally been privileged by government policies in property-owning democracies. Yet more than one-third of Australians and New Zealanders do not own the housing they occupy. Seeking to equalise housing experiences between tenants and owners is therefore an appropriate goal for government. In this article, the term ‘synthetic owner-occupation’ is used to describe a practicable, equalised housing experience for tenants relative to owner-occupiers, but ‘home’ has similar import.

Taxes can neutralise to some extent the different wealth experiences of tenants and owner-occupiers but, because these measures tend to level the circumstances of the majority downwards, they are politically implausible. While taxes cannot be effective alone, they may also contribute to closing the gap in consumption experiences of owner-occupiers and tenants. This article investigates, in particular, how taxes can supplement regulation in promoting an experience of home for tenants.

Keywords: tax, tenancy, home ownership

Suggested Citation:

Barrett, Jonathan M., The Role of Taxes in Promoting the Experience of Home for Tenants (April 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3376289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies