Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts, Taxes, and the Information Environment

Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 May 2019

Sangwan Kim

University of Massachusetts Boston

Andrew Schmidt

North Carolina State University

Kelly Wentland

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 12, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent to which analysts incorporate tax-based earnings information into their earnings forecasts relative to other earnings information. We find that analysts’ mis-reaction to tax-based earnings information is distinct from their mis-reaction to other (non-tax) accounting information, on average. We then show that analysts differ in their mis-estimation of tax and other (non-tax) earnings components only when firms have weak information environments; when firms have strong information environments, analyst forecasts fully incorporate tax-based earnings information and exhibit no difference incorporating tax-based earnings information relative to other accounting information. Our evidence suggests that, on average, forecasting tax-based earnings information is more difficult for analysts relative to forecasting other accounting information. However, access to appropriate information and resources enables analysts to better process tax information. Overall, we contribute to the literature by providing a more complete understanding of the source of analyst tax-related forecast errors.

Keywords: Analysts; Taxes; Information Environments

JEL Classification: H25; M41; D82; G14

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Sangwan and Schmidt, Andrew P. and Wentland, Kelly, Analysts, Taxes, and the Information Environment (April 12, 2019). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3377050
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies