Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Arm’s Length Principle in the 21st Century – Alive and Kicking?

51 Pages Posted: 24 May 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Stefan Greil

University of Hamburg

Date Written: September 5, 2019

Abstract

The international tax system faces substantial challenges with respect to taxing profits of multinational enterprises. Policymakers have put the focus on the taxation of the digital economy. The aim of this article is to provide a comprehensive overview over the ALP and the allocation of taxing rights of business profits, the concept of value creation, the impact of digitization on the allocation of taxing rights and the current discussions regarding this topic. Finally, I make a connection between the value creation concept and the challenges of digitization and asked the question if ALP is fit for purpose. It is intended to refocus on the proper application of the ALP in the 21st century as the re-thinking exercise is more demanding and requires more work than what has been published so far. By doing this exercise, I also provide food for thought which could be further explored to enhance the current international tax system.

Keywords: Arm’s Length Principle, Digital Economy, Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: F00, H20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Greil, Stefan, The Arm’s Length Principle in the 21st Century – Alive and Kicking? (September 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3379092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
172 References
R Adner
When are technologies disruptive? A demand-based view of the emergence of competition
Strategic Management Journal , volume 23 , p. 667 - 688 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Afuha
Redefining Firm Boundaries in the Face of the Internet: Are Firms Really Shrinking?
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 53 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Z Aliber
Transnational Corporations and Regional Economic Integration Posted: 1993
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Formula apportionment: Is it better than the current system and are there better alternatives?
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 1145 - 1184 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
867
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,211
RANK
63,808
172 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies