Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Typology of Place-Based Investment Tax Incentives

25 Wash. & Lee J. Civ. Rights & Soc. Just. 403 (2019)

University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 19-30

62 Pages Posted: 28 May 2019 Last revised: 3 Feb 2020

Michelle D. Layser

University of San Diego School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

This Article develops a typology of place-based investment tax incentives that can be used to evaluate the relevance of empirical findings, identify new areas of research, and predict the impact of specific tax incentive designs. This typology will be especially valuable for the purpose of analyzing the new federal Opportunity Zones investment tax incentives.

This Article makes several contributions to tax, poverty, and empirical legal literature. First, it defines the category of place-based investment tax incentives and identifies key elements of variation across the category. Second, the typology presented here can be used by both tax and poverty law researchers to help assess the applicability of existing empirical studies to specific types of place-based investment tax incentives. Third, this Article identifies areas for further legal and empirical research.

As this Article explains, community oriented types of place-based investment tax incentives, which contain features specifically designed to benefit residents of poor communities, are uncommon under existing law. These rare types of tax incentives are theoretically promising and enjoy some empirical support; nevertheless, due in part to their rarity, they have been largely understudied. The most complete understanding of place-based investment tax incentives, therefore, will require additional research about the ideal design and impact of community oriented investment tax incentives.

Keywords: Taxation, Poverty, Community Development

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Layser, Michelle D., A Typology of Place-Based Investment Tax Incentives (May 1, 2019). 25 Wash. & Lee J. Civ. Rights & Soc. Just. 403 (2019) , University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 19-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3381394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
See Kolko & Neumark, supra note 11, at 24 (discussing the effect of enterprise zones on employment); see also Hanson, supra note 12
Elvery
One can easily imagine other relevant metrics, such as health outcomes, crime rates, or educational performance; however
See Hanson
The majority of past analyses of geographically-targeted tax incentives study programs initiated at the state 1, and focuses on how these programs affect employment outcomes , volume 722
See Elvery, supra note 12, at 57 (discussing enterprise zones in California and Florida)
Load more
1 Citations
Michelle D. Layser
How Place-Based Tax Incentives Can Reduce Geographic Inequality
Tax Law Review, Vol. 74, No. 1, 2020 · 68 Pages · Posted: 2 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 11 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 507
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,680
RANK
357,528
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies