Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Tax, Making Enterprises Pay Their 'Fair' Share?

TILEC Discussion Paper No. DP 2019-007

22 Pages Posted: 8 May 2019 Last revised: 20 Jun 2019

Venetia Argyropoulou

Tilburg University; European University of Cyprus Law School

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

During the last 20 years, we have witnessed the digital transformation of the economy with the rise of digital giants, companies like Google, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Apple, whose business takes place online. Existing corporate taxation rules, however, have proven to be ineffective for the taxation of such businesses, as they do not take into account their particularities, including, inter alia, the absence of physical presence in the countries where their products are marketed online. Indicatively, the European Commission announced that on average digital companies pay an effective tax rate of just 9,5%, whilst traditional enterprises pay an effective rate of 23,2%.1 Currently, policy makers worldwide are looking into effective measures to adapt the corporate taxation into the digital economy and to achieve a “fair” and “just” tax system for same. In this regard, on September 21st, 2017, the European Commission released a Communication on ‘A Fair and Efficient Tax System in the European Union for the Digital Single Market’, which led to the proposition of two directives on the subject. The first proposal introduces rules for the establishment of an additional type of Permanent Establishment (PE) on the basis of a ‘significant digital presence’. The second proposal introduces an interim measure, to allow Member States to immediately tax revenues stemming from digital services that currently escape taxation. The present Article will explore the proposal introduced by the European Commission and critically analyse whether such proposals can in fact establish a fair tax system or whether they will lead to further discrimination and injustice. It is divided into three parts. In the first part I will explore the motives and underlying reasoning behind the European Commission’s initiatives and other initiatives in the field of taxation of digital enterprises taken by the OECD and other States and explore if such initiatives afford a more fair result. In the second part, I will analyse and critically review the EU proposals and attempt to respond on the question of whether in fact a fair tax system is achieved. On the third part, I will briefly examine the steps that need to be taken in the future.

Keywords: Digital Tax, Significant Digital Presence, Digital Service Tax, EU Fair and Efficient Tax System

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Argyropoulou, Venetia, Digital Tax, Making Enterprises Pay Their 'Fair' Share? (May 1, 2019). TILEC Discussion Paper No. DP 2019-007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3383389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3383389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Johannes See , Joachim Becker , Englisch
EU Digital Services Tax: A Populist and Flawed Proposal -Kluwer International Tax Blog Posted: 2018-04
Cristiano Garbarini
Six Questions Plus One About the Proposed EU Directive On The Taxation Of A "Significant Digital Presence
Kluwer International Tax Blog' (Kluwer International Tax Blog Posted: 2018-04
Oecd Oecd
Tax and Digitalisation
OECD Going Digital Policy Note Posted: 2019-04-22
Clyde Gary , Zhiyao (lucy) Hufbauer , Lu
The European Union's Proposed Digital Services Tax: A De Facto Tariff' (2018) 18 Policy Brief, Peterson Institute for International Economics , volume 66
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,168
RANK
131,610
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies