Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Authority Tax Policy in Poland. Evidence from the Union of Polish Metropolises

Contemporary Economics, Vol. 13 No. 1, pp. 49-62, 2019

14 Pages Posted: 30 May 2019

Paweł Felis

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Henryk Rosłaniec

VIZJA UNIVERSITY

Date Written: December 19, 2017

Abstract

Local taxes and the related taxing power are significant determinants of public authority decentralization. Local taxes should primarily serve as an effective source of self-government revenues. Therefore, it is extremely important to identify and comprehend the motives and behaviors of self-government authorities with regard to local taxes. This work focuses on real property tax, the most efficient of all local taxes. Importantly, in Poland, the system of real property taxation is based on the area of the given property and not on its value. The present work is based on two sources: official data derived from budget reports and reports from town council meetings during which tax resolutions were made. The spatial scope of the analysis covers 12 largest Polish cities – members of the Union of Polish Metropolises (UMP). The article is aimed at the comprehension of ways in which town self-governments make use of opportunities created by the current legal framework in Poland. Therefore, through the use of the correlation testing methods (Pearson’s correlation (r) and Spearman’s correlation) the article attempts to determine the impact of a reduction in rates on the volume of budget revenues and to explain the statistical diversification of real property tax rates. It presents econometric models illustrating the financial effects of town tax authority on real property taxes. The results of the empirical study reveal diversity in the tax policies of large cities. The observed differences can to some extent be explained by the size and wealth of a city. Furthermore, the results confirm that tax policy influences city income but that consequences of the policies change significantly over time.

Keywords: local authority tax policy, taxing power decentralization, self-government own revenues, local taxes, real property tax

JEL Classification: E62, H71, H72, R51

Suggested Citation:

Felis, Paweł and Rosłaniec, Henryk, Local Authority Tax Policy in Poland. Evidence from the Union of Polish Metropolises (December 19, 2017). Contemporary Economics, Vol. 13 No. 1, pp. 49-62, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3384493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Journal of Laws Posted: 2018
H Blöchlinger
Fiscal federalism 2014. Making Decentralization Work Posted: 2013
Crossref
Crossref
H Blöchlinger , J Pinero-Campos
Tax Competition between Sub-Central Governments Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
849,077
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies