Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybrid Entity Mismatches and the International Trend of Matching Tax Outcomes: A Critical Approach

Intertax, Vol. 46, Issue 12, 2018

23 Pages Posted: 14 May 2019

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

The international tax debate as regards hybrid entities has certainly changed after the OECD BEPS Project. Since then, the trend has been focused exclusively on matching transactions involving hybrids and reverse hybrid entities and double non-taxation, however without questioning whether these two elements are necessarily interconnected or whether they should serve each other in the design of domestic anti-hybrid provisions. This is particularly evident as regards the notion of ‘hybrid (entity) mismatch arrangements’ the design of which is based on the assumption that income should be taxed somewhere – no matter where – and as regards the complex set of domestic solutions proposed (‘linking rules’) the true efficacy of which is nevertheless still unknown.

In this vein, this article adopts a critical approach both as regards the diagnosis of the problems and as regards the solutions proposed. As to the diagnosis, the author argues that the artificial attempt to match transactions involving hybrid entities and double non-taxation not only disregards the fundamental issue as regards hybrid entity mismatches (i.e. the disparate tax characterization of the same entity by two different states), but also carries with it the risk of creating presumptions of abusive practices in all those cases in which a hybrid entity structure is simply not taxed at all. As to the remedies, the author argues against the complexity, excessive reliance on foreign laws and potential economic double taxation issues that the implementation of linking rules might cause from a tax policy perspective. From a practical perspective, the author questions the proper interaction between linking rules and other anti-base erosion provisions, such as interest limitations and CFC rules. This article ultimately concludes that a re-orientation in the international debate regarding hybrids and reverse hybrid entities is crucial in order to open the door for more fundamental – and perhaps also more coordinated – solutions.

Keywords: Hybrid Entities, Double Non-Taxation, BEPS Action 2, Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Tax Transparent Entities, Linking rules

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, Hybrid Entity Mismatches and the International Trend of Matching Tax Outcomes: A Critical Approach (December 1, 2018). Intertax, Vol. 46, Issue 12, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3384555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
realizes losses, the partners may deduct the losses currently on their own tax returns, while losses at the corporate level may not be deducted by shareholders
Once this has been done, it proceeds to make comparability analysis, by which it compares the situation of the complaining taxpayer -normally, a non-resident with economic connection with the host country -with a comparable domestic situation in order to determine whether or not these two comparable situations are treated equally. If the result of this second phase is that the national rule is discriminatory, there must be still justifications for the discrimination. Yet, even existing a justification ground, the rule needs to be considered proportional
the first place, the ECJ determines which of the fundamental freedoms is indeed potentially infringed , volume 121 Posted: 2012
J Bundgaard
Hybrid Financial Instruments and Primary EU Law-Part , volume 2 , issue 12 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Kudert , &amp; C Kahlenberg
Extension of the Domestic Correspondence Principle
Eur. Tax'n , volume 54 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
606
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,017
RANK
101,895
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies