Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tax Professor's Guide to Formative Assessment

22 Florida Tax Review 363 (2019)

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 356

57 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2019 Last revised: 23 Oct 2019

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: May 15, 2019

Abstract

The ABA Standards now require formative assessment to be integrated into law school courses, and there is extensive literature, both in legal education and education more generally, about the goals and methods for formative assessment. This Article makes the key insights of that literature accessible and actionable for professors teaching tax courses. This crash course on formative assessment is intended to enable tax professors to integrate formative assessment into their classrooms effectively and efficiently without having to become legal pedagogy scholars in addition to being tax law scholars. The formative assessment techniques discussed herein range from those that require relatively little time and effort to those that may be particularly impactful but that require additional time and work. This Article also discusses strategies for reducing the burden of even the work-intensive approaches. Ultimately, by using numerous examples from basic federal income tax, corporate tax, and partnership tax courses, I hope to make it easier for tax professors to figure out which approach(es) to formative assessment is(are) likely to work best for their students, make it easier for tax professors to implement their chosen formative assessment techniques in their classrooms, and make it easier for tax professors to achieve their goals for their classes as successfully as possible, all at as little cost as possible.

Keywords: tax, formative assessment, ABA Standard 314, pedagogy, teaching, legal education

JEL Classification: K34, K40, A23, I2

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., A Tax Professor's Guide to Formative Assessment (May 15, 2019). 22 Florida Tax Review 363 (2019), UC Hastings Research Paper No. 356, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3388943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
See Part V.A.2.b (discussing integration of metacognitive components into inclass exercises)
See Frost, supra note 103 (exploring, in greater detail, the use of model answers for providing formative feedback)
Joi T. Montiel
Empower the Student, Liberate the Professor: Self-Assessment by Comparative Analysis
Pages: 28 Posted: 6 Sep 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
See Frost, supra note 103 , p. 954 - 58
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
169,120
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies