Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Persistence and Pricing of Changes in Multinational Firms' Foreign Cash Holdings

Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019 Last revised: 13 Dec 2021

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Peng-Chia Chiu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: December 6, 2021

Abstract

Using a hand-collected sample of U.S. multinational firms’ foreign and domestic cash holdings, we evaluate the earnings persistence implications of changes in foreign and domestic cash and whether stock prices reflect such implications. Building on the earnings decomposition approach in Dechow, Richardson, and Sloan (2008), we find that, in the overall sample, changes in foreign cash are as persistent for future earnings as changes in domestic cash. In the cross-section, we find that foreign cash changes have higher persistence when foreign operations offer better growth opportunities and when repatriation taxes are lower. We then examine whether investors correctly price the persistence implications of foreign and domestic cash changes. We find a positive association between current foreign cash changes and one-year-ahead stock returns, suggesting that investors underreact to foreign cash changes, or equivalently, underestimate the earnings persistence of foreign cash changes. We further document that investors are more likely to misprice foreign cash changes when information processing costs are higher and when firms have poorer information environments. Our study sheds light on a recent paper, Harford, Wang, and Zhang (2017), who find that investors discount foreign cash changes, which they attribute to agency costs and investment inefficiencies. Our findings suggest that the discount is more likely due to investor mispricing of foreign cash changes.

Keywords: U.S. multinational firms, Foreign cash holdings, Earnings persistence, Investor mispricing

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Novia (Xi) and Chiu, Peng-Chia and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., The Persistence and Pricing of Changes in Multinational Firms' Foreign Cash Holdings (December 6, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3388358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3388358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring value relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
F Akbas , C Jiang , P Koch
The trend in firm profitability and the cross-section of stock returns
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2017
H Amberger , K Markle , D Samuel
Repatriation taxes, internal agency conflicts, and subsidiary-level investment efficiency
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,340
RANK
246,365
3 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies