Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Bunching at the Kink in the Presence of Low Capacity of Enforcement: Evidence from Uruguay

IZA Discussion Paper No. 12286

73 Pages Posted: 21 May 2019 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Marcelo Bergolo

Universidad de la Republica - Instituto de Economía; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Gabriel Burdin

University of Siena - Department of Economics and Statistics

Mauricio de Rosa

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA)

Matias Giaccobasso

VATT Institute for Economic Research

Martin Leites

Universidad de la República

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

By using a bunching design on rich administrative tax records from Uruguay's tax agency we explore how individual taxpayers respond to personal income taxation in a context with high sheltering opportunities. We estimate a moderated elasticity of taxable income in the first kink point (0.16) driven by a combination of gross labor income and deductions responses. Taxpayers use personal deductions more intensively close to the kink point and undereport income unilaterally or through employer-employee collusion. Our results suggest that policy efforts should be directed at broadening the tax base and improving the enforcement capacities rather than eroding tax progressivity.

Keywords: deductions behavior, elasticity of labor income, tax bunching, personal income taxation, misreporting, developing economies

JEL Classification: H21, H24, H30, J22

Suggested Citation:

Bergolo, Marcelo and Burdin, Gabriel and de Rosa, Mauricio and Giaccobasso, Matias and Leites, Martin, Tax Bunching at the Kink in the Presence of Low Capacity of Enforcement: Evidence from Uruguay. IZA Discussion Paper No. 12286, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3390276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Acemoglu , S Naidu , P Restrepo , J A Robinson
Democracy Does Cause Growth
Journal of Political Economy , volume 127 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 100 Posted: 2018
J G Altonji , C H Paxson
Labor Supply Preferences, Hours Constraints, and Hours-Wage Trade-offs
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 254 - 276 Posted: 1988
Veronica Amarante , Marcela Gomez
El proceso de formalizacion en el mercado laboral uruguayo , volume 20 Posted: 2016
P Bachas , M Soto
Not(ch) Your Average Tax System: Corporate Taxation Under Weak Enforcement Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
RANK
285,369
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies