Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2018

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 72, No. 4, 2019

134 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2019

Bruce A. McGovern

South Texas College of Law Houston

Cassady V. Brewer

Georgia State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

This article summarizes and provides context to understand the most important developments in federal income taxation for the year 2018. The items discussed primarily consist of the following: (i) significant amendments to the Internal Revenue Code; (ii) important judicial decisions; and (iii) noteworthy administrative rulings and regulations promulgated by the Service and Treasury. The article focuses primarily on subjects of broad general interest – tax accounting rules, determination of gross income, allowable deductions, treatment of capital gains and losses, corporate and partnership taxation, exempt organizations, and procedure and penalties. This article generally does not address items relating to federal estate and gift taxation, income taxation of trusts and estates, qualified pension and profit-sharing plans, international taxation, or specialized industries such as banking, insurance, and financial services.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Income taxation, Corporate taxation, Partnership taxation, Tax shelters, Tax procedure, Individual income taxation, Tax-exempt, Tax-exempt organizations

JEL Classification: A19, H20, H24, H25, H26, H50, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

McGovern, Bruce A. and Brewer, Cassady V., Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2018 (February 1, 2019). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 72, No. 4, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3393963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3393963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
D C The
Circuit found that registered (?) tax return preparers were entitled to be unqualified. The IRS had de gall to require character, competence, and continuing education for "independent" tax return preparers who only needed PTINs to continue preparing error-laden tax returns for their unsophisticated clientele
F Supp
The D.C. Circuit (Judge Kavanaugh) held that regulations issued in 2011 under 31 U.S.C. § 330 that imposed new character, competence, and continuing education requirements on tax return preparers were "foreclose[d] and render[ed] unreasonable" by the statute, and thus failed at the Chevron step 1 standard. They would have also failed at the Chevron step 2 standard because they were "unreasonable in light of the statute's text, history, structure, and context
) the preparation and filing of a tax return did not constitute "practice … before the Department of the Treasury" because that term implies "an investigation, adversarial hearing, or other adjudicative proceeding"; (3) the history of the statutory language originally enacted in 1884 "indicated that the statute contemplated representation in a contested proceeding"; (4) the regulation was inconsistent with the "broader statutory framework," (?!) in which Congress had enacted a number of statutes specifically directed at tax-return preparers and imposing civil penalties, which would not have been necessary if the Service had authority to regulate tax-return preparers; (5) the statute would have been clearer had it granted power "for the first time to regulate hundreds of thousands of individuals in the multi-billion dollar tax-preparation industry" ["the enacting Congress did not intend to grow such a large elephant in such a small mousehole
• Judge Kavanaugh ; I R B
On remand, the District Court (Judge Boasberg) held that the AICPA failed the zone of interests test because its grievance (which the court characterized as the grievance of the AICPA's members) is neither regulated nor protected by the relevant statute. Accordingly, the court granted the Service's motion to dismiss. The court characterized the grievance of the AICPA and its members as competitive injury from brand dilution, i.e., that the AFS Program would dilute the credentials of the AICPA's members by introducing a government-backed credential and government-sponsored public prohibits it from being self-serving or imposes a corroboration requirement
light of the Service's loss in Loving v. IRS, a new, voluntary Annual Filing Season Program to give tax return preparers the ability to claim they hold "a valid Annual Filing Season Program Record of Completion" and that they have "complied with the IRS requirements for receiving the Record of Completion." Rev. Proc. 2014-42 , p. 2014 - 2043
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,076
RANK
324,400
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies