Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The COGS Exception Should BEAT It

Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, Vol. 58, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Alexander Bavis

Columbia Journal of Transnational Law

Date Written: May 27, 2019

Abstract

Conflicting theories of international taxation have led countries to adopt differing approaches to taxing multinational corporations (“MNCs”). MNCs, seizing upon these mismatches, employ base erosion and profit shifting (“BEPS”) strategies that shift profit to low tax jurisdictions and minimize global tax liability. Amid a global struggle to combat BEPS, the United States (“U.S.”) introduced the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (“BEAT”). The U.S.’s most recent effort, while promising, provides a significant exception for BEPS strategies that manipulate cost of goods sold (“COGS”). This Note argues that the BEAT would better serve tax policy considerations if the U.S. removed its COGS exception. This Note begins by describing countries’ competing approaches to international taxation, the BEPS problem that results, and difficulties in combating BEPS. Next, this Note discusses the BEAT, specifically exploring the U.S.’s new territorial tax regime of which the BEAT is a part, the BEAT’s calculation, and the BEAT’s COGS exception. Finally, this Note argues that the BEAT would better serve tax policy considerations if the U.S. removed its COGS exception because the COGS exception: (1) undermines the U.S.’s territorial tax regime and capital import neutrality, (2) violates neutrality and fairness, and (3) hinders the BEAT’s effectiveness in combating BEPS.

Suggested Citation:

Bavis, Alexander, The COGS Exception Should BEAT It (May 27, 2019). Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, Vol. 58, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3394951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Addressing Oecd , The , Challenges , The , Economy
at 58; see also Dana Feldman, U.S. TV Ad Spend Drops As Digital Ad Spend Climbs To $107B
FORBES , issue 6 Posted: 2018
Oecd See , Addressing The , Challenges , The , Economy
Crossref
James Manyika , Al , America
A TALE OF THE HAVES AND HAVE-MORES 4 Posted: 2015-12
Crossref
Id
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Stacie Kelley , Christina Lewellen , Dan Lynch , David Samuel
'Just BEAT It' Do firms reclassify costs to avoid the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) of the TCJA?
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-03, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 20 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 759
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
584,242
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies