Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
OIRA’s Expanded Review of Tax Regulations and Its Surprising Implications

3 Business, Entrepreneurship & Tax Law Review 224 (2019)

13 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019 Last revised: 7 Mar 2020

Bridget C.E. Dooling

Ohio State University (OSU) - Michael E. Moritz College of Law

Date Written: May 20, 2019

Abstract

Executive Order 12866 describes U.S. policy on regulatory planning and review. It directs agencies to identify the nature and significance of the problem they are trying to solve with regulation, to identify alternative solutions, to assess the quantifiable and non-quantifiable costs and benefits of each alternative, and then to choose the option that maximizes net benefits to society, taking into account distributional effects and other considerations. That policy, which has governed U.S. regulation for several decades, is managed by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (“OIRA”). It is also subject to several exemptions. In April 2018, the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget signed a historic memorandum of agreement narrowing one of those exemptions. The memorandum expands the number of Internal Revenue Service regulatory actions for which the Service must comply with Executive Order 12866. This action moved tax rules out of the “presidential tax-policy blind spot.” This article offers a close study of that memorandum of agreement and reveals six striking features that not only affect tax regulation, but also offer intriguing possibilities for (1) scholarly understanding of OIRA as an institution and (2) the future of regulatory review of independent regulatory agencies, which are currently exempt from OIRA review.

Keywords: OIRA, OMB, IRS, Treasury, tax, regulatory review, memoranda of agreement, MOA, economic analysis, EO 12866, independent agencies, independent regulatory agencies

Suggested Citation:

Dooling, Bridget C.E., OIRA’s Expanded Review of Tax Regulations and Its Surprising Implications (May 20, 2019). 3 Business, Entrepreneurship & Tax Law Review 224 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Exec
Order No. 12,866 § 6, 58 Fed. Reg , volume 51 , p. 740 - 783
Cass R As Professor , Sunstein
former OIRA Administrator, has explained
The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs: Myths and Realities
Harv L Rev
Professor Eloise Pasachoff summarizes the range of OIRA scholarship in her recent article on the OMB budget process. Eloise Pasachoff, The President's Budget as a Source of Agency Policy Control Posted: 1838
L J Yale
offering examples of literature with critical and favorable views of OIRA and its regulatory review process). 11. Scholars noted the absence of OIRA review from tax regulations, but did not dwell on it. Wallace, supra note 7 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,066
RANK
668,003
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies