Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The International Coordination of Corporate Taxation: Old Solutions for New Challenges?

LUISS Guido Carli School of European Political Economy Working Paper 5/2019

33 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Vieri Ceriani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Giacomo Ricotti

Bank of Italy

Date Written: March 10, 2019

Abstract

The ways in which multinational companies operate in the current economic context questions the adequacy of international coordination of corporate taxation. A conceptual approach would require abandoning the classic paradigms of the international tax system (permanent establishment, arm's length, transfer pricing); they remain at the basis of the “Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” project (BEPS) elaborated by the OECD but are now obsolescent. The crisis of this system has been exacerbated by the Trump Reform and the explosion of the digital economy. The former introduces new regimes that undermine international cooperation and are in contrast with the WTO rules and with the double taxation treaties, regardless of the traditional OECD principles. The latter has features that cannot be governed by current tax rules, even if improved with the suggestions of the BEPS project. Solutions proposed at international level or applied by individual countries could lead to great uncertainty. A rational response to these challenges would rest on different bases, such as those of a system of formulary apportionment, with advantages in terms of simplicity, cost and certainty, fostering allocative efficiency and growth. Although this design is not feasible at international level, applying such a system in Europe, with the common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB), could ensure greater attractiveness and efficiency of the EU internal market: it would apply the same formulary system applied to other markets (e.g., the US market), while intra-European transactions are still regulated by the transfer pricing mechanism.

Keywords: corporate taxation, digital economy, international taxation

JEL Classification: H25, F23, F55, H87

Suggested Citation:

Ceriani, Vieri and Ricotti, Giacomo, The International Coordination of Corporate Taxation: Old Solutions for New Challenges? (March 10, 2019). LUISS Guido Carli School of European Political Economy Working Paper 5/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3395813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
-M Arumpalam , -G Devereux , Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Auerbach -M. Devereux , -M Keen , -J Vella
Destination-Based Cash Flow Taxation Posted: 2017-01
A Auerbach -M. Devereux , -M Keen -Vella
International Tax Planning under the Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax
National Tax Journal Posted: 2017-12
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
Beat It: Tax Reform and Tax Treaties
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 587, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 18-003 Pages: 7 Posted: 10 Jan 2018 Last revised: 22 Mar 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
521,427
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies