Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Capital Gains to Tax Administration, and Everything In Between: In Honour of Professor Chris Evans

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, p. 269-277 (2019)

9 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Kristin E. Hickman

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - School of Law

Date Written: May 30, 2019

Abstract

Written for a symposium honoring the work of Prof. Chris Evans of the University of New South Wales School of Taxation & Business Law, this essay describes and connects the dots among three strands of scholarship — concerning capital gains taxation, tax compliance costs, and tax system complexity — produced by Prof. Evans over two decades.

Keywords: capital gains taxation, tax compliance costs, tax complexity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hickman, Kristin E., From Capital Gains to Tax Administration, and Everything In Between: In Honour of Professor Chris Evans (May 30, 2019). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, p. 269-277 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3396686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Binh Tran , -Nam , Chris Evans
The Impact of Cedric Sandford on the Discipline of Tax Compliance Costs
Australian Tax Forum , volume 389 Posted: 2002
Chris See , Philip Evans , Binh Lignier , Tran-Nam
The Tax Compliance Costs of Large Corporations: An Empirical Inquiry and Comparative Analysis
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 64 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
Philip Lignier , Christopher Charles Evans , Binh Tran-Nam
Tangled Up in Tape: The Continuing Tax Compliance Plight of the Small and Medium Enterprise Business Sector
Australian Tax Forum, Vol 29, No 2, pp. 217-247 Pages: 32 Posted: 12 Aug 2014 Last revised: 23 Dec 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Binh Tran-Nam
Tax Compliance Costs: Research Methodology and Empirical Evidence from Australia
National Tax Journal , volume 53 , issue 2 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies