Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Décisions fiscales anticipées et confiance légitime - État des lieux et retour sur la notion d’opposabilité (Tax Rulings and Legitimate Expectations in Luxembourg Tax Law)

Droit fiscal Luxembourgois - Livre Jubilaire IFA Luxembourg, ALEF IFA Luxembourg 30 ans, Bruylant (2018)

36 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Fatima Chaouche

Université du Luxembourg

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

French Abstract: Les décisions anticipées relèvent, tout comme les circulaires administratives, de ce qu’il convient de qualifier plus génériquement de doctrine administrative fiscale. La prévisibilité et la stabilité de ces mécanismes d’interprétation s’inscrivent dans une exigence croissante de sécurité juridique à laquelle la matière fiscale est loin d’être étrangère. S’il est communément admis que les prises de position formelles émises par l’administration fiscale échappent à tout caractère normatif, l’opposabilité de ces interprétations amène cependant à s’interroger sur l’étendue des garanties en faveur des contribuables qui se prévalent de cette doctrine. La formalisation de cette procédure au lendemain du scandale LuxLeaks et les réponses jurisprudentielles récentes permettront de mettre en évidence la précarité de ce mécanisme à la lumière du principe de la confiance légitime.

English Abstract: This contribution explores the enforceability and legal value of tax rulings in Luxembourg domestic tax law. After a historical analysis of the advance decision mechanism in Luxembourg, this study reviews the certainty attached to tax rulings in light of the principle of legitimate expectations and related principles. I argue in this paper that both statutory and judicial conceptions of tax rulings, which lead to opposite results, are equally unsatisfactory as the two approaches either favor the strict application of the principle of legality (§29a AO) or promote a ‘generous’ application of the principle of legitimate expectations to tax rulings that are manifestly contra legem. In light of the status quo, I defended the need to resort to a balancing construction, which would entail, in the judicial review of tax rulings, the insertion of an additional subjective criterion to assess the reasonableness of the legitimate expectations invoked by the ruling recipient. Overall, this new standard would assess first the fitness of the ruling issued (e.g. its legality) and then, in a second phase, whether the ruling in question did give rise to a reasonable expectation in the mind of a diligent and prudent taxpayer. This balancing formula provides an additional safeguard for taxpayers, instead of strictly denying the validity of the ruling for its contra legem nature, as it permits to ultimately protect the unlawful advance decisions where it has reasonably given rise to legitimate expectations that deserve protection. This ‘reasonable’ standard would, for instance, include a review of the personal status of the taxpayer (e.g. non-expert taxpayer, assistance by a tax adviser, etc.) and whether the erroneous treatment confirmed by the tax authorities was reasonably detectable by a diligent and prudent recipient of an advance decision.

Note: Downloadable document is in French.

Keywords: tax rulings, Luxembourg, legitimate expectations, rescrit fiscal, décision anticipée, confiance légitime

Suggested Citation:

Chaouche, Fatima, Décisions fiscales anticipées et confiance légitime - État des lieux et retour sur la notion d’opposabilité (Tax Rulings and Legitimate Expectations in Luxembourg Tax Law) (April 1, 2018). Droit fiscal Luxembourgois - Livre Jubilaire IFA Luxembourg, ALEF IFA Luxembourg 30 ans, Bruylant (2018) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3396159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Lemmerz-Werke Gmbh
C-111/63. 58 -CJUE, 5 juin 1973, Commission c/ Conseil, C-81/72. 59 -CJUE, 25 juin 1975, Deuka, C-5/75. 60 -CJUE, 26 juin 1990 , volume 13 Posted: 1978-08-03
-H C H Hofmann , G C Rowe , A H Türk
Administrative Law and Policy of the European Union Posted: 2011
Conseil France , Constitutionnel
, p. 97 - 391
T A France , Strasbourg
Entreprise Freymuth c/ min. de l'Environnement, n o 95NC00226. J.-M. WOehrling, « Les principes de sécurité juridique et de confiance légitime dans la jurisprudence administrative française : un exemple de réception en droit français d'un principe européen d'origine allemande
Verfassung und Verwaltung in Europa, Festschrift für Jürgen Schwarze zum 70. Geburtstag , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,748
RANK
262,460
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Fiscal & Monetary Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies