Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt and Taxes? The Effect of TCJA Interest Limitations on Capital Structure

45 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019 Last revised: 11 Sep 2020

Richard Carrizosa

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: September 10, 2020

Abstract

The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) placed limitations on the deductibility of interest for U.S. firms. Using a difference-in-differences design examining both affected and unaffected firms, we show that following the enactment of the new limitations, affected firms significantly decrease corporate leverage. Specifically, we find that relative to unaffected U.S. firms, affected firms experience a decrease in leverage of 2.9% of assets; corresponding to about $126 million per firm and $29.8 billion aggregated over our full sample. This represents a debt decrease of 5.8% relative to the average debt to asset ratio for the pre-TCJA affected sample. We find similar results using a triple differences design, which benchmarks debt trends in the U.S. to those of unaffected and pseudo-affected Canadian firms that would be subject to the limitation had they been U.S. firms. These results are driven by decreases in long-term domestic debt and by declines in new issuances rather than repayment of existing debt. Robustness tests indicate other elements of tax reform do not influence the results. We also find firms not currently subject to limitations on interest but subject to future limitations decrease leverage by about half as much as firms currently subject to interest limits.

Keywords: TCJA, tax reform, interest limitation, capital structure, debt, leverage

JEL Classification: H26, H71, H72

Suggested Citation:

Carrizosa, Richard and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Lynch, Dan, Debt and Taxes? The Effect of TCJA Interest Limitations on Capital Structure (September 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3397285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3397285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,318
RANK
34,342
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies