Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Double Taxation Treaties on Tax Relief and Foreign Firms’ Investment Flows (FDI): Evidence from Pakistan

28 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2019 Last revised: 23 May 2022

Muhammad Atif

Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

To increase inward foreign investment, policy makers increasingly resort to the ratification of double taxation treaties (DTTs). However, the effectiveness of DTTs in inducing higher FDI is still open to debate, as the empirical evidence of existing studies is anything but conclusive. This study analyzed the benefits of DTT to firms in terms of profits from dividend and capital gains, and whether or not these benefits lead to increase in foreign investment inflows. In contrast to earlier approaches, we used a firm specific dataset of bilateral FDI stocks. We also calculated the tax relief obtained by each firm due to DTT. And investigate whether these relief were significant factor in attracting FDI by those firms. We collected the consolidated tax data for a sample of 50 entities residing in Non-resident countries for the period of 2013 to 2017. 28 of them have Active income and 22 were Non-Active. Descriptive statistics, Correlation and regression test were used for the analysis of the data. Our results indicate that tax relief from dividend and capital gains due to DTTs is a significant factors in attracting FDI stocks. Moreover, increase in dividend and capital gain tax also seems to positively affect FDI. Furthermore, the relationship remained unchanged for active income and Non-Active income categories. Hence, in context of Pakistan, DTT seems to have a positive effect on FDI.

Keywords: Double taxation treaties, bilateral investment treaties, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), Income Tax Act, Domestic laws, Pakistan, Tax Relief, Dividend, Capital Gain

Suggested Citation:

Atif, Muhammad and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Effect of Double Taxation Treaties on Tax Relief and Foreign Firms’ Investment Flows (FDI): Evidence from Pakistan (June 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3397474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3397474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
O F Development , .-O
Double Tax Treaties. Islamic Republic of pakistan , volume 26 , p. 45 - 48 Posted: 2005
C M Radaelli
The Politics of Corporate Taxation in the European Union , volume 6 Posted: 1997
D L Carr , J R Markusen , K E Maskus
Estimating the knowledge-capital model of the multinational enterprise
The American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 693 - 708 Posted: 2001
Oecd
Harmful Tax Competition: A Global Issue Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,466
RANK
340,955
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies