Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Private Country-by-Country Disclosure

The Accounting Review (forthcoming)

56 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2019 Last revised: 21 Dec 2021

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Marcel Olbert

London Business School

Date Written: December 02, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the effects of mandatory private Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR) to European tax authorities on multinational firms’ capital and labor investments as well as their organizational structures. We exploit the threshold-based application of this 2016 disclosure rule to conduct difference-in-differences and regression discontinuity tests. We document increases in capital and labor expenditures in Europe, but these effects are more pronounced in countries with preferential tax regimes. Cross-sectional tests and analysis using consolidated financial data provide evidence consistent with multinational firms reallocating capital across Europe to mitigate increased tax enforcement risk, as well as with CbCR hindering capital investment efficiency. We also find evidence consistent with firms responding to CbCR by reducing organizational complexity. Collectively, our results support the conclusion that mandatory private CbCR causes firms to change real investment activities to substantiate their tax avoidance activities in Europe while reducing the appearance of aggressive tax practices.

Keywords: Real Effects, Disclosure Regulation, Private Disclosure, Mandatory Disclosure, Country-by-Country Reporting, Tax Transparency, Tax Avoidance, Tax Havens, Organizational Complexity

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, H32, K22, L51, M41, M48, O47

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Olbert, Marcel, Real Effects of Private Country-by-Country Disclosure (December 02, 2021). The Accounting Review (forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3398116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3398116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
H Akamah , O.-K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle?
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,871
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,743
RANK
10,352
66 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies