Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goods and Services Tax (GST) in India: Towards Sustainable Economic Growth

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 1, January 2019, pp. 7-14

Posted: 13 Jun 2019

Divya Verma Gakhar

Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University

Date Written: January 6, 2019

Abstract

Goods and Services Tax (GST) has been newly introduced in India. Not only will GST help India to adjust with the global taxation system, but it will also help the Government of India to increase its Tax to GDP ratio. The main objective of the study is to understand the GST launched by the government and to analyze its impact on the financial performance of the companies. The data for four industrial sectors (two industrial goods and two consumer goods) has been taken, namely, cement industry, steel industry, automobile sector and communication sector. A total of 78 companies were taken as the sample and quarterly results related to various financial parameters such as net sales, total expenses, net profit, earnings per share, price-earnings ratio and turnover were collected from the Prowess database. The data was collected for two quarters before and after the implementation of GST on July 1, 2017, so that the impact of GST implementation could be studied across sectors on various performance parameters. The analysis shows that introduction of GST has brought in a positive change in the performance of all sectors selected for this study.

Suggested Citation:

Gakhar, Divya Verma, Goods and Services Tax (GST) in India: Towards Sustainable Economic Growth (January 6, 2019). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVIII, No. 1, January 2019, pp. 7-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3399900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies