Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Amnesties Programs on Tax Collection and Economic Performance: A Global Macro Economic Analysis

Mujahid, A. and Siddiqui, D. A. (2019). The Effect of Tax Amnesties Programs on Tax Collection and Economic Performance: A Global Macro Economic Analysis. International Journal of Social and Administrative Sciences, 4(2), 108-128

21 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2019 Last revised: 10 May 2022

Azeem Mujahid

Karachi University Business School, Students

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

Taxes are a major source of government income. Still a major part of economy exists undocumented. Tax amnesty programs are considered a short term tool to overcome tax compliance for long run benefits as well as short term recovery of revenue. This study is examined the effect of tax amnesties programs on tax revenue percentage to GDP and on macro-economic performance with the interaction of tax to GDP. Panel data of 28 years from 1990 to 2017 were collected from 24 countries and run a different test to support our results. These countries data were taken on an annual basis, where single or multiple tax amnesties launched in different years. GDP per capita, FDI per GDP, and the unemployment rate were taken as Macroeconomic variables, and the influence of taxrevenue percentage to GDP in presence and absence of tax amnesty on these macroeconomic variables were tested. Results showed that the tax amnesty scheme affect GDP per capita, and FDI but not through an increase in taxes but some other reason. Successful Tax amnesty may benefit reduce the unemployment rate and improve tax to GDP in long-run with increased tax compliance is still workable. We suggest that tax authorities undertake tax reforms from successful experiences of tax amnesties in different countries for economic prosperity and better results.

Keywords: Tax amnesty, Tax compliance, Macroeconomic indicators, Repatriation, Tax evasion, Foreign direct investment, Tax reforms

Suggested Citation:

Mujahid, Azeem and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Effect of Tax Amnesties Programs on Tax Collection and Economic Performance: A Global Macro Economic Analysis (June 7, 2019). Mujahid, A. and Siddiqui, D. A. (2019). The Effect of Tax Amnesties Programs on Tax Collection and Economic Performance: A Global Macro Economic Analysis. International Journal of Social and Administrative Sciences, 4(2), 108-128, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,680
RANK
173,028
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies