Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
States Can and Should Respond Strategically to Federal Tax Law

Ohio North University Law Review, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019 Last revised: 5 Aug 2021

Darien Shanske

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: June 10, 2019

Abstract

Everyone knows that states do not need to conform to federal tax law. That is why, in the aftermath of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), states face scores of questions about whether and how to conform to the changes made to federal tax law. The explosion of conformity questions has put some pressure on the perceived wisdom about whether states must conform to federal tax law. For instance, the TCJA makes certain changes that are meant as complements to other changes; can a state choose to conform to federal law a la carte, that is, only conform to some, but not all, of the changes made to a particular area?

More fundamentally, how much can states respond to changes made by the federal tax law strategically? The federal government is showering taxpayers with very generous depreciation rules; can states make their depreciation schedules less generous in response?

In this short symposium piece, I will confirm that what “everyone knows” is correct. States do not need to conform to federal tax law and can (and should) respond to federal tax law strategically.


Keywords: Tax Cut and Jobs Act, State Tax Policy, Federal Preemption

Suggested Citation:

Shanske, Darien, States Can and Should Respond Strategically to Federal Tax Law (June 10, 2019). Ohio North University Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3401643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Moorman Mfr Co
, volume 267 Posted: 1978
Walter Hellerstein
Deciphering the Supreme Court's Opinion in Wynne , volume 123 Posted: 2015
Id
104. 107. Wynne, 135 S. Ct. at 1792. 108. Id , p. 1803 - 1807
Crossref
See Id
, p. 196 - 97
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
658,539
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies