Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mirage of Mark-to-Market: Distributive Justice and Alternatives to Capital Taxation

Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2019 Last revised: 6 Sep 2019

Charles Delmotte

Michigan State University College of Law; NYU School of Law

Nick Cowen

School of Social and Political Sciences, University of Lincoln

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

Substantially increased wealth inequality across the developed world has prompted many philosophers, economists and legal theorists to support comprehensive taxes on all forms of wealth. Proposals include levying taxes on the basis of total wealth, or alternatively the change in the value of capital holdings measured from year-to-year. This contrasts with most existing policies that tax capital assets at the point they are transferred from one beneficiary to another through sale or gifts. Are these tax reforms likely to meet their aims of greater economic and political equality? We argue that these policies are likely to fail because, following neoclassical economic theory, they are based on a conception of capital as possessing given values in what amounts to a static equilibrium. This mischaracterizes the dynamic and subjective character of market economies and the contested value of real instantiations of capital goods. This makes them very difficult, often impossible, to value apart from at the point of voluntary transfer or profit realization. This means most taxes levied on a mark-to-market basis will be arbitrary and unfair. We propose alternative policies based on an income realization approach to taxation that are more likely to curb excessive wealth holdings. This includes introducing international treaties that prohibit preferential tax treatment for individual companies and specific sectors, and broadening the income tax base to include the imputed rent of personal housing wealth.

Keywords: wealth inequality, capital taxation, tax base, distributive justice, market economy

JEL Classification: B53, H21, H26, A13

Suggested Citation:

Delmotte, Charles and Cowen, Nick, The Mirage of Mark-to-Market: Distributive Justice and Alternatives to Capital Taxation (June 7, 2019). Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3401067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3401067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
W D Andrews
The Achilles' Heel of the Comprehensive Income Tax
New Directions in Federal Tax Policy for the Posted: 1980
K J Arrow , G Debreu
Existence of an Equilibrium for a Competitive Economy
Econometrica , volume 22 , issue 3 Posted: 1954
Crossref
J Bankman , D Shaviro
Piketty in America: A Tale of Two Literatures. Tax L. Rev , p. 477 - 485 Posted: 2015
O Bonnet , P-H Bono , G Chapelle
Does housing capital contribute to inequality? A comment on Thomas Piketty's Capital in the 21st Century
Sciences Po Economics Discussion Paper , volume 7 , issue 2 Posted: 2014-11
Load more
2 Citations
Nick Cowen
Hayek’s Appreciative Theory and Social Justice
Cosmos + Taxis, Forthcoming · 21 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 135
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Charles Delmotte
Simple Rules and the Political Economy of Income Taxation: The Strengths of a Uniform Expense Rule
European Journal of Law and Economics · 17 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Last revised: 4 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 99
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
RANK
534,865
2 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies