Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures of Tax Settlements to Assess Their Favorability

53 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019 Last revised: 16 Apr 2025

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

Tax footnotes, particularly disclosures of unrecognized tax benefit (UTB) accruals, contain significant information. To aid large-sample empirical research, and assess reliable measures of the favorability of tax settlements, we compare three potential proxies of footnote information: two derived from quantitative information and one derived from qualitative information. To validate the proxies, we use hand-coded disclosures about the nature of UTB settlements and an empirical model of the revaluation of prior, open tax positions at the time of settlement. We find that the textual analysis method to infer settlement favorability from qualitative text in tax footnotes performs well in both validations. Conversely, the tax rate reconciliation proxy is discriminant only in the first validation, while the accrual of interest and penalties proxy relates to settlement favorability only in the second validation. Overall, the qualitative proxy is most reliable and represents a new and useful measure for the empirical tax literature.

Keywords: tax settlement, textual analysis, footnote disclosure, unrecognized tax benefit

JEL Classification: C89, D81, H25, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M. and Klassen, Kenneth,
A Comparison of Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures of Tax Settlements to Assess Their Favorability
(April 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
E Allen , D E O'leary , H Qu , C W Swenson
Tax specific versus generic accounting-based textual analysis and the relationship with effective tax rates: Building context
Journal of Information Systems , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 115 - 147 Posted: 2021
S Baginski , E Demers , C Wang , J Yu
Contemporaneous verification of language: Evidence from management earnings forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 197 Posted: 2016
J L Blouin , C A Gleason , L F Mills , S A Sikes
What can we learn about Uncertain Tax Benefits from FIN 48?
National Tax Journal , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 521 - 535 Posted: 2007
J L Blouin , C A Gleason , L F Mills , S A Sikes
Pre-empting disclosure? Firms' decisions prior to FIN 48
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 791 - 815 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
397,014
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies