Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disputing Denied Downward Transfer-Pricing Adjustments

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 67, No. 2, 2019, pp. 281-308

28 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2019

Daniel Sandler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lisa Watzinger

Goldman Sloan Nash and Haber LLP

Date Written: June 12, 2019

Abstract

This article considers the appropriate forum for disputing a denied downward transfer-pricing adjustment under subsection 247(10) of the Income Tax Act ("the ITA"). It begins by describing various scenarios in which a request for a downward transfer-pricing adjustment may arise, examines the delegation to officials at the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) of the authority to grant the adjustment, and outlines the CRA's administrative practice on when to grant such adjustments. It then explores whether the Federal Court or the Tax Court of Canada is the appropriate forum to adjudicate a denied downward transfer-pricing adjustment.

For disputes under the ITA, the division of jurisdiction between the two courts is generally well defined. The Tax Court has the exclusive jurisdiction to determine the correctness of an assessment whereas the Federal Court has the exclusive jurisdiction to review discretionary decisions of the minister of national revenue or officials at the CRA to whom the minister's powers have been delegated. This jurisdictional divide is less clear for disputes in respect of a denied downward transfer-pricing adjustment.

Subsection 247(10) is the only provision in the ITA under which the correct determination of a taxpayer's income is subject to ministerial discretion. The exercise of ministerial discretion suggests that the appropriate forum to dispute a denied transfer-pricing adjustment is the Federal Court. However, subsection 247(11) specifies that the mechanisms for resolving all transfer-pricing disputes under part XVI.1 of the ITA are through the objection and appeal process in part I of the ITA. The language of subsection 247(11), coupled with its legislative history, the restrictions on the Federal Court's jurisdiction, and practical considerations regarding transfer-pricing disputes, all suggest that the Tax Court is the appropriate forum to consider a denied downward transfer-pricing adjustment. Historical case law from the Exchequer Court supports this conclusion.

However, there are scenarios in which a denied downward transfer-pricing adjustment may not result in a notice of assessment being issued, and therefore no clear right of appeal to the Tax Court may exist. To ensure that the Tax Court has the jurisdiction to review all denied downward transfer-pricing adjustments, and not only those that result in an assessment, the authors recommend that part XVI.1 of the ITA be amended to include language requiring the minister to issue an assessment in all cases in which a downward transfer-pricing adjustment is denied.

Keywords: transfer pricing, adjustments, disputes, jurisdiction, Tax Court of Canada, Federal Court

Suggested Citation:

Sandler, Daniel and Watzinger, Lisa, Disputing Denied Downward Transfer-Pricing Adjustments (June 12, 2019). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 67, No. 2, 2019, pp. 281-308, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
972
RANK
640,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies