Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Planning Affect Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Jun 2019

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Nathan J. Newton

Florida State University

Date Written: December 5, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether firms’ tax planning affects the accuracy of analysts’ forecasts. Tax planning can exacerbate the complexity of firms’ operations through strategic choices to exploit tax laws. Because of its effect on firms’ operations, tax planning can influence analysts’ efforts to understand and forecast earnings. Specifically, if the additional complexity arising from tax planning makes firm attributes less representative of expected earnings, analysts may issue less accurate forecasts. Using auditor-provided tax services (APTS) as a measure of tax planning, we find that, as firms spend more on tax planning, the accuracy of analysts’ forecasts of both earnings-per-share and tax expense declines. We also document that firms with higher levels of APTS have greater year-to-year volatility in, and lower persistence of, effective tax rates and earnings. Our results suggest that increased firm complexity, due to greater tax planning, makes earnings and tax expense more difficult to forecast and that analysts do not properly adjust for these effects. Thus, when deciding to engage in tax planning, firms appear to make tradeoffs between potential tax savings and negative effects on earnings properties and analysts’ forecasts.

Keywords: auditor-provided tax services, analyst forecasts, tax planning

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R. and Neuman, Stevanie S. and Newton, Nathan J., Does Tax Planning Affect Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy? (December 5, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405656
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies