Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Losses and Excessive Risk Taking under Limited Liability: A Case Study of the TEPCO Bailout after the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster

Columbia Journal of Asian Law, Vol. 32, No. 2, 2019

45 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2019

Takayuki Nagato

Gakushuin University

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

It is commonly accepted in the tax law literature that, in theory, business tax losses resulting from risk taking should be fully refundable to taxpayers. Further, when such refunds are unrealistic, tax losses should instead be freely transferable or carried forward without time limitations to achieve tax neutrality on risk taking. The general position taken in the literature assumes that such risk taking is socially desirable. However, that assumption does not always hold. For example, the corporate law literature clearly establishes that the rule of limited liability of shareholders encourages corporations to take excessive risks that might harm social welfare. Accordingly, this study theoretically examines the relationship between tax losses and limited liability.

Furthermore, this study conducts a case study to empirically demonstrate what kind of tax problem can happen with respect to excessive risk taking. Specifically, the bailout of Tokyo Electric Power Company Holdings (TEPCO) after the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear disaster caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, provides an informative case study for a further analysis of this relationship. TEPCO ended up owing over 7.9 trillion yen of compensation liability for the damages caused by its shareholders’ excessive risk taking under limited liability. Although TEPCO’s lack of resources to fully compensate for the damages was easily foreseen, the company did not go into bankruptcy. Instead, the government rescued it without wiping out its existing shareholders. The problem does not end there because the TEPCO bailout created a tax problem. This study questions the appropriateness of allowing TEPCO to deduct its tax losses. This is because TEPCO can circumvent the strict time limitation of the tax loss carryforward period owing to the peculiar legal structure of its bailout scheme. In other words, TEPCO’s existing shareholders, who are assumed to have taken excessive risk can enjoy tax windfall that other corporations’ shareholders cannot. This study considers possible, although imperfect, legislative solutions to the problem.

Keywords: Tax losses, Limited Liability, Fukushima Nuclear Disaster, Bailout

Suggested Citation:

Nagato, Takayuki, Tax Losses and Excessive Risk Taking under Limited Liability: A Case Study of the TEPCO Bailout after the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster (June 1, 2019). Columbia Journal of Asian Law, Vol. 32, No. 2, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3405762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
COLUMBIA JOURNAL OF ASIAN LAW , volume 32
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
618,773
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies