Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytics and Tax Law

25 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Anthony Niblett

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Albert Yoon

University of Toronto Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 23, 2019

Abstract

Machine learning models can be used to find patterns in datasets. In this essay, we discuss how innovative technologies such as big data analytics and machine learning are being used to gain new and actionable insights in the field of tax law. Our goal is not to provide a complete overview of every possible application; rather, we seek to illustrate some key examples of how analytics can be employed in the field of tax law. This essay provides both insights on how to improve the administration and content of tax law and policy, and insights for taxpayers seeking to understand the content of tax law. It proceeds in two parts.

In the first part of this essay, we discuss how big data analytics can help tax agencies and regulators, such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), better administer tax law. The IRS has troves of data that can be used to identify ways to minimize the tax gap – i.e., the difference between the taxes that would be paid if taxpayers met all of their legal obligations, and those that the IRS actually receives and collects. We argue that predictive analytics can be used by tax authorities to optimally allocate their scarce resources and more precisely target enforcement efforts to yield optimal results, including identifying and pursuing taxpayers who are less likely to comply with their obligations under the status quo. We also take a broader approach and look at the insights that might be used by governments more generally to improve the content of tax policy. We ask how data analytics can improve the content of the law so that it better aligns with the law’s objective.

In the second part of the essay, we look at the insights that can help taxpayers in understanding tax law. Here, we focus on how taxpayers can use data analytics to more accurately determine their tax liability in areas where the law is vague and unclear. While we frame the benefits of these insights as primarily flowing to the taxpayer, there are no doubt ancillary gains for the tax agency and regulator. Data analytics will also provide insights for the practitioners of tax law, such as accountants. Many commentators, including ourselves, have explored how predictive technologies will affect legal research and the practice of law more generally. Accordingly, in this essay we direct our focus beyond practitioners.

Keywords: machine learning, tax, taxation, tax law, big data, data analytics

JEL Classification: K00, K34

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Niblett, Anthony and Yoon, Albert, Data Analytics and Tax Law (May 23, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3406784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
764
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,565
RANK
75,728
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies