Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Perception and Tax Evasion

IIM Kozhikode Society & Management Review (Journal of Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode), 2017

Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

The study attempts to report the factors that are responsible for people’s perceptions about taxation, in general, and tax evasion, in particular. The study frames a model, based on which research hypotheses are derived. Adopting crosssectional research design, a survey was carried out on a sample of 125 respondents. A pre-test was also carried out to test the reliability and validity of the interview-schedule before the actual survey was executed. Factor analysis was applied for data reduction. Results of inferential statistics show the influence of selective demographics on tax perception and tax evasion, with other factors such as provisions for penalty and prosecution and rates of tax also influencing the taxpayers’ decisions. While acknowledging a few shortcomings, the relevance of the study in policy-making has been enumerated. In conclusion, a road map for further studies has been indicated.

Keywords: tax evasion, survey, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Tax Perception and Tax Evasion (July 1, 2017). IIM Kozhikode Society & Management Review (Journal of Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3407189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies