Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tax Theory of the Firm

University of Cincinnati Law Review, Vol. 88, 2019

Thomas Jefferson School of Law Research Paper No. 3410114

65 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2019 Last revised: 11 Nov 2019

Richard Winchester

Seton Hall Law School

Date Written: June 25, 2019

Abstract

The U.S. has always had two distinctly different methods for taxing business profits. The method that applies in any given case has always depended on the tax classification assigned to the firm. However, there has never been a satisfactory way to determine a firm’s tax classification because the rules for doing so were never grounded in a theory of the firm that had any relevance for tax purposes. This article offers a tax theory of the firm that can serve as an organizing principle for classifying firms and taxing their profits. The principle focuses on the firm’s concentration of ownership and generally asks whether five or fewer persons own over half the value of the firm. Variations of this formulation have been incorporated into several anti-abuse rules over the years, making it a well-tested approach. Aside from that, it is supported by longstanding economic theories that explain the one aspect of firm behavior that is relevant for tax purposes: whether the firm functions as an extension of its owners or not.

Keywords: corporate tax, partnership tax, business classification, entity classification, choice of entity

JEL Classification: K34, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Winchester, Richard, A Tax Theory of the Firm (June 25, 2019). University of Cincinnati Law Review, Vol. 88, 2019, Thomas Jefferson School of Law Research Paper No. 3410114, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3410114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
361,062
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Thomas Jefferson School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies