Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partnership Audit Rules: After the Final Regulations

128 J. Tax'n 9 (June 2019)

19 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2019

Monica Gianni

California State University Northridge

Date Written: April 1, 2019

Abstract

As part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA), Congress repealed the TEFRA audit rules and the audit rules for electing large partnerships and replaced them with a new audit regime (the BBA audit rules). The BBA audit rules generally are effective for audits of partnership returns for tax years beginning after 2017. Although the TEFRA audit rules were enacted in 1982 to address issues with partnership audits, particularly tax shelters, they proved difficult to implement. In a 1990 report to Congress, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Treasury concluded that large partnership audits were an inefficient and time-intensive use of limited resources. The BBA audit rules address the deficiencies of the TEFRA audit rules through a centralized audit system that requires partnership adjustments to be determined at the partnership level and any tax attributable to the adjustments to be assessed and collected at the partnership level. The rules allow for a small-partnership opt-out and an elective alternative to “push out” the audit adjustments made and tax paid to the partners. The audit process is streamlined by limiting the right to notices and participation in the audit to one “partnership representative” who has the “sole authority” to act for the partnership in an audit.

Regulations finalizing most aspects of the BBA audit rules were published in February 2019. Two prior Treasury Decisions adopted particular aspects of the rules — the opt-out election, and the opt-in election and the partnership representative. Proposed regulations regarding international aspects of the rules and tax attributes have not been finalized. This article sets out the BBA audit rules as reflected in the statutes and the final regulations issued to date. With the issuance of these regulations, partnerships have a detailed set of instructions to follow to comply with the rules and prepare for an audit. Going forward, the Treasury has left sufficient flexibility in the regulations to develop and adapt procedures as the IRS and partnerships “gain more experience” with the rules. Finalizing proposed regulations on international aspects and tax attributes will close remaining gaps. The BBA audit rules are extremely complex, but they should enable partnership audits to proceed more smoothly and efficiently than under the TEFRA audit rules.


Keywords: partnership tax audit, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, BBA, TEFRA

JEL Classification: K, M

Suggested Citation:

Gianni, Monica, Partnership Audit Rules: After the Final Regulations (April 1, 2019). 128 J. Tax'n 9 (June 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3411188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,655
RANK
249,957
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies