Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Penalties, the Trust on Authorities, and the Tax Audit Toward Tax Compliance

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.2, 2019

13 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Retnaningtyas Widuri

Petra Christian University

Devina Devina

Petra Christian University

Fransiska Marta

Petra Christian University

Yulia Wati

Petra Christian University

Date Written: April 15, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to examine the effect of tax penalties, trust in the tax authorities, and tax audit of taxpayer compliance. This research is based on a decrease in tax revenues that still has not reached the target set in the state budget (“APBN”). This study intends to identify factors that have a significant effect on taxpayer compliance which is limited to factors of tax penalties, trust in the tax authorities, and tax audit. This research will be conducted by using a quantitative approach; it can be done by using an approach through 153 respondents as a sample of this research. The data analysis technique used is multiple linear regression. The results of the study show that partially and simultaneously tax penalties trust in the tax authorities, and tax audit has a significant effect on taxpayer compliance. Determination coefficient value of 0.426 shows that the amount of 0.426 (42.6%) variation of the tax compliance variable is able to be explained by variables tax penalties, tax audit, and trust in the tax authorities.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Penalties, Trust in Tax Authorities, Tax Audit, Tax Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Widuri, Retnaningtyas and Devina, Devina and Marta, Fransiska and Wati, Yulia, The Influence of Penalties, the Trust on Authorities, and the Tax Audit Toward Tax Compliance (April 15, 2019). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.2, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
132,934
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies