Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to the Financial Transaction Tax Adoption in Europe

Posted: 11 Jul 2019

Ahmad Chokor

University Grenoble Alpes, Center for Studies and Applied Research in Management (CERAG)

Date Written: July 2, 2019

Abstract

This paper studies the European stock market reactions to a number of events associated with the adoption of a Financial Transaction Tax (FTT). We assess the impact of the FTT implementation process on eight European countries that are involved in the European Union financial transactions tax project. We first analyze the equity market returns to events increasing the probability of an FTT adoption in Europe in order to investigate investors’ perceptions of the FTT externalities. We then assess whether particular firm characteristics explain cross-sectional variations in firms’ return reactions. The results show that events which increase the probability of the tax adoption in Europe are associated with a negative abnormal return for concerned stocks. Moreover, we find that the magnitude of the returns’ reaction was not the same across all the European firms.

Keywords: Financial Transaction Tax, Asset Returns, Information efficiency, Liquidity, Europe

JEL Classification: G21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Chokor, Ahmad, Market Reaction to the Financial Transaction Tax Adoption in Europe (July 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3413549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3413549
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies