Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Introduction to Tax Careers for J.D.s

ABA TAX TIMES, Vol. 38, No., 3, Spring 2019

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 322

6 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2019 Last revised: 1 Oct 2019

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: June 14, 2019

Abstract

To many people, the tax field seems like a very narrow niche. The tax profession does require specialized expertise, but tax professionals know that there is actually great diversity in the career paths available to law school graduates. Yet for law students and junior lawyers interested in the tax field, it can be difficult to appreciate the range of possible tax careers and to distinguish between what different tax practitioners do. Thus, to help aspiring tax professionals easily understand the range of tax careers they might pursue, this article offers a 3-pronged framework for describing tax careers available to J.D.s. There are some more comprehensive resources available to help aspiring tax professionals plan their careers, but many law students and junior lawyers who are just beginning to consider the possibility of pursuing tax could benefit from a concise and accessible introduction to tax law careers. That is what this article provides.


Keywords: tax, careers, tax practice, tax law, legal education, tax education, tax practice

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., An Introduction to Tax Careers for J.D.s (June 14, 2019). ABA TAX TIMES, Vol. 38, No., 3, Spring 2019, UC Hastings Research Paper No. 322, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3416936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
648
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,987
RANK
93,512
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies