Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dutch Shell Companies and International Tax Planning

CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2019-024

39 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2019

Arjan Lejour

Tilburg University; CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis

Jan Möhlmann

CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis

Maarten van 't Riet

CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis; Leiden University

Thijs Benschop

CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis

Date Written: July 8, 2019

Abstract

This paper uses the financial statements of special purpose entities (SPEs) for explaining the origin and destination of dividend, interest, and royalty flows passing the Netherlands. We find that Bermuda is the most important destination for royalty flows. These flows come from Ireland, Singapore and the United States. For dividend and interest payments the geographical pattern is more widespread. We find a substantial tax reduction for royalties by using Dutch SPEs compared to a direct flow between the origin and destination country. However, we cannot find such tax savings for dividends and interest with an approximation based on statutory tax rates. When controlling for country characteristics in our regression analysis we do find that tax differentials partially explain the geographical patterns of income flows diverted through the Netherlands. This is the case for the likelihood that a route is used, as well as for the size of the flows. This paper is one of the first using bilateral income flows as dependent variables instead of bilateral FDI stocks or flows.

Keywords: corporate taxation, international tax planning, treaty shopping, bilateral dividend flows, bilateral interest flows, bilateral royalty flows

JEL Classification: G32, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Lejour, Arjan M. and Möhlmann, Jan and van 't Riet, Maarten and Benschop, Thijs, Dutch Shell Companies and International Tax Planning (July 8, 2019). CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2019-024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3416459 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3416459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Who owns the wealth in tax havens? Macro evidence and implications for global inequality
Journal of Public Economics , volume 162 , p. 89 - 100 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International Corporate Tax Avoidance: a Review of the Channels, Magnitudes, and Blind Spots
Crossref
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodème
International taxation and multinational firm location decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B A Blonigen , R B Davies
The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity, International Tax and Public Finance , volume 11 , p. 601 - 622 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
370,049
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies