Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letter Review and Analyst ETR Forecast Accuracy

46 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2019 Last revised: 5 Jun 2020

Anne Ehinger

Florida State University

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issues comment letters suggesting revisions to firms’ tax disclosures with the goal of improving the informativeness of these disclosures. I examine if SEC-prompted revisions to firms’ tax disclosures are associated with changes in the informativeness of the disclosures. I use the accuracy of analyst effective tax rate (ETR) forecasts as a proxy for tax disclosure informativeness. I find that SEC-prompted revisions are associated with a decrease in analyst ETR forecast accuracy, indicating a decrease in the informativeness of tax disclosures. However, I find that increased tabular presentation attenuates the decrease in analyst ETR forecast accuracy. Prior literature examines benefits of the SEC comment letter process on the information environment. I extend prior literature on the outcome of SEC comment letter review by identifying reduced tax disclosure informativeness as one potential cost.

Keywords: SEC comment letter, income taxes, effective tax rate, analyst forecast accuracy

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ehinger, Anne, SEC Comment Letter Review and Analyst ETR Forecast Accuracy (April 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3418421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3418421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Crossref
C R Austin
The potential of tax surprises to affect measures of tax avoidance and researchers' inferences
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
RANK
261,451
5 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies