Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance - Are Banks Any Different?

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 2

64 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2019 Last revised: 4 Aug 2021

Vanessa Gawehn

Paderborn University

Jens Mueller

Paderborn University

Date Written: March 12, 2020

Abstract

While the public has noticed the need for the detection of potential tax loopholes and demands further improvement in the taxation of banks, there is scarce empirical evidence whether banks’ degree of tax avoidance actually differs from that of non-banks. We try to close this gap by investigating U.S. banks’ tax avoidance behavior for a sample period from 2004 to 2016. To identify banks’ tax avoidance, we use annual Cash ETRs and GAAP ETRs and compare them to the tax avoidance behavior of non-banks. As there are various channels of tax avoidance, we account for differences in several areas such as corporate fundamentals, the degree of multinationality and regulatory scrutiny. We provide cautious evidence that banks have significantly higher Cash ETRs than non-banks. Using quantile regression, we find evidence that the assocation between banks and ETRs is not constant over the whole tax avoidance distribution, with banks reporting significantly higher ETRs compared to nonbanks in those regions of the tax avoidance distribution which are regularly classified as “high tax avoidance”. In line with recent research, we provide some evidence that the difference in Cash ETRs between banks and non-banks is more pronounced for worse-capitalized, than for better-capitalized banks.

Keywords: tax avoidance, banks, non-banks, standardized coefficients, quantile regression

JEL Classification: G21, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gawehn, Vanessa and Mueller, Jens, Tax Avoidance - Are Banks Any Different? (March 12, 2020). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3418506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3418506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,257
RANK
175,068
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies