Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IRS Monitoring Matter for the Cost of Bank Loans?

58 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2019 Last revised: 1 Jul 2021

Theodora Bermpei

University of Sussex - School of Business, Management and Economics

Antonios Nikolaos Kalyvas

University of Kent; Department of Banking and Finance, Southampton Business School, University of Southampton

Simon Wolfe

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: July 8, 2019

Abstract

Using data on syndicated bank loans, we find that higher IRS audit probabilities exert a negative and significant effect on the cost of bank credit. A one standard deviation increase in the IRS audit probability decreases the cost of bank loans by around 9 basis points (or $1.55 million interest for the average loan). We also show that this negative association is more pronounced for loans granted to borrowers with stronger lending relationships, especially if they have credible access to the equity and public debt markets. These results indicate that IRS monitoring could increase the bargaining power of borrowers that have access to public sources of external financing and restrain private lenders from extracting informational rents from their lending relationships. These findings provide a novel insight into how IRS monitoring could lower the cost of corporate financing through the banking system. This study informs the public policy debate about the IRS by showing that it exerts a significant positive spillover to the US economy.

Keywords: syndicated loans, loan pricing, tax enforcement, IRS, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G21, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Bermpei, Theodora and Kalyvas, Antonios Nikolaos and Wolfe, Simon, Does IRS Monitoring Matter for the Cost of Bank Loans? (July 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3419334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3419334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
280,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies