Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antideferral Rules Hamper Use of Offshore Corporations

63 Practical Tax Strategies 68 (Aug. 1999)

15 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2019

Monica Gianni

California State University Northridge

Date Written: August 1, 1999

Abstract

The misconception that U.S. taxes can be avoided by using offshore corporations derives from an understanding of only the general principles of U.S. income taxation. U.S. persons are taxed on their worldwide income, regardless of where they earn income or where they live. Non-U.S. persons, such as offshore corporations, are generally taxed only on their income from U.S. sources. The logical conclusion from these general principles is that all that is needed to avoid U.S. income tax is to have an offshore corporation earn income instead of the U.S. taxpayer. Of course, when the corporation actually distributes income to its U.S. shareholder, the shareholder will be subject to U.S. income tax. The most that a U.S. person can thus hope to achieve by using an offshore corporation is to defer the recognition of income by keeping the income outside of the U.S. This article discusses the six antideferral regimes in effect in 1999: foreign personal holding companies, income of controlled foreign corporations, foreign investment companies, passive foreign investment companies, personal holding companies, and the accumulated earnings tax.

Keywords: Antideferral, Subpart F, PFIC, CFC

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Gianni, Monica, Antideferral Rules Hamper Use of Offshore Corporations (August 1, 1999). 63 Practical Tax Strategies 68 (Aug. 1999), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3421425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
)(C) , (D), and (E) , volume 954
Crossref
Sections 1291(b)(1) and (2)(A)
Sections 1291(a)(1) and (c)
Section 367(b)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
712
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies