Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stranded Assets and Efficient Pricing for Regulated Utilities: A Federal Tax Solution

11 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 1 (2019)

56 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2020 Last revised: 16 Jul 2020

Tracey M. Roberts

Samford University, Cumberland School of Law

Date Written: August 27, 2019

Abstract

Most businesses recoup their investments in property, plant, and equipment from the
income they earn from using those assets. When changes in markets, technology, or regulations reduce income from those assets or increase operating costs, businesses may not recover their full investments in those “stranded assets.” Unregulated firms generally contain these risks by diversifying assets and income streams, procuring insurance, or engaging in hedging transactions. Public utilities, however, must obtain a regulator’s permission both to manage these risks and to pass the costs of those assets forward to consumers. Globally, over $20 trillion in global fossil fuel assets may be stranded as countries pass climate change legislation. To date, investor and consumer concerns about stranded costs have delayed the adoption of carbon pricing schemes, spurred the rejection of greenhouse gas regulation altogether, and formed the basis for bankruptcy filings, takings litigation, and demands for relief.

This article makes four contributions. First, it clarifies that under the existing tax and regulatory rules, the economic benefits of substantial tax subsidies are currently being passed forward to consumers, artificially reducing fossil fuel electricity rates, encouraging waste, and increasing emissions. Second, it quantifies the extent of stranded assets held by public utilities in the United States, pulling data on unrecovered capital from the securities filings of the fifteen largest firms in the country. Third, it argues that U.S. tax measures have left fewer assets to be stranded, identifying $110 billion in “accumulated deferred income taxes” or “ADIT,” the tax savings from deferral, as a source of recovery. Finally, the article proposes a change in tax and regulatory policy that will enhance efficiency, remove one of the supports for carbon lock-in, and help manage the threat of stranded assets, smoothing the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.

Keywords: energy, public utilities, investor operated utilities, fossil fuels, coal-fired power, natural gas-fired power, stranded assets, accumulated deferred income taxes, accelerated depreciation, externalities, efficiency, environment, climate change

JEL Classification: K23, H22, H23, Q31, Q38, Q40, Q48, Q54, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Roberts, Tracey, Stranded Assets and Efficient Pricing for Regulated Utilities: A Federal Tax Solution (August 27, 2019). 11 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 1 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3443927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Appendix C: Annual Reports For , With , Owned , Regulated Utilities Ameren
Annual Report (Form 10-K) Posted: 2017-02-28
American Electric Power
Annual Report (Form 10-K), at 113-114 , p. 169 - 170 Posted: 2017-02-23
Annual Report (Form 10-K) , p. 100 - 101 Posted: 2017-02-14
Annual Report (Form 10-K) , p. 82 - 83 Posted: 2010-02-22
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
268,746
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies