Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strengthening Tax Compliance by Balancing Authorities’ Power and Trustworthiness

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2019 - 03

34 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

The traditional economic approach to enforce tax compliance rests on the assumption that taxpayers are reluctant to pay their share, are inclined to maximize their egoistic goals by rationally considering audit probability and fines in case of detected evasion, and comply only if enforced to comply. Behavioral economic and psychological insights draw a more complex picture of determinants of compliance and point to differences between taxpayers and their inclination to be compliant, which calls for differential strategies to ensure compliance rather than a one-fits-all strategy. In the present chapter, actors in the tax arena and interaction dynamics are described. Interaction is shaped by power of the authorities and their trustworthiness, which combined, are the underlying dimensions of the tax climate. As conceptualized in the slippery slope framework and its extension, it is argued that a distinction between coercive and legitimate power, and between reason based trust and implicit trust is necessary to understand the interaction dynamics. Subsequently, emotions elicited by power of authorities and their trustworthiness are described, followed by speculations about the impact of anger, fear or feelings of protection and security on compliance. Finally, strategies to shift from control to cooperation are summarized.

Keywords: tax compliance, slippery slope framework, power, trust, emotions

JEL Classification: H2, H26

Suggested Citation:

Kirchler, Erich, Strengthening Tax Compliance by Balancing Authorities’ Power and Trustworthiness (September 1, 2019). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2019 - 03 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3457245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3457245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
A Ali , N Ahmad
Trust and tax compliance among Malaysian working youth
International Journal of Public Administration , volume 37 , issue 7 , p. 389 - 396 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Does an uncertain tax system encourage "aggressive tax planning
Economic Analysis and Policy , volume 44 , p. 30 - 38 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
574
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,640
RANK
109,268
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies