Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peer Benchmarking Tax Avoidance for Cost of Debt

44 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2019 Last revised: 23 Oct 2019

Mariya Letdin

Florida State University

Cathryn Meegan

Florida State University

Miles A. Romney

Florida State University - College of Business

C. F. Sirmans

Florida State University - Department of Risk Management, Insurance, Real Estate & Business Law

Date Written: October 16, 2019

Abstract

We show that managers can significantly lower corporate borrowing costs by adjusting effective tax rates. While prior research suggests a positive linear relation between tax avoidance and cost of debt, we document a U-shaped relation in which bondholders reward “undersheltering” firms with a decreasing cost of debt for increasing their tax avoidance until a point at which the relation reverses. As firms move toward the most aggressive tax avoidance levels, their cost of debt increases. Our study is the first we are aware of to provide evidence of a non-linear, U-shaped relation between tax avoidance and cost of debt. Additionally, we provide evidence suggesting that the range of effective tax rates corresponding to lowest borrowing costs varies greatly by industry. We show that managers can lower costs of debt (average yield savings of 1.37%) by benchmarking their firm’s tax avoidance relative to their industry peers.


Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Undersheltering, Tax Strategy, Cost of Debt

JEL Classification: G21, G32, H26

Suggested Citation:

Letdin, Mariya and Meegan, Cathryn and Romney, Miles A. and Sirmans, C. F., Peer Benchmarking Tax Avoidance for Cost of Debt (October 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3460713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3460713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
J. Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Strategic reactions in corporate tax planning
J. Account. Econ Posted: 2019
Crossref
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
J. Am. Tax. Assoc , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2016
Crossref
E S Bagnani , N T Milonas , A Saunders , N G Travlos
Managers, Owners, and the Pricing of Risky Debt: An Empirical Analysis
J. Finance , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 453 - 477 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
259,422
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies