Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subsidies and Value-Added Tax: A Comparative Study of Law and Practice in Canada and the European Union

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 67, No. 3, 2019, pp. 533-579

48 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2019

Robert van Brederode

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Simon B. Thang

Thang Tax Law

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

Value-added tax (VAT) is a tax levied on private consumption expenditures. Where VAT is levied on each transaction within the supply chain, the aim of taxing only private consumption is achieved by allowing businesses a credit to offset the VAT paid on purchases against the VAT collected on sales. This article provides a comparative study of the law and practice in the European Union and Canada regarding subsidies and VAT (in Canada, the goods and services tax). Subsidies are among the financial instruments used by governments, and sometimes private organizations, to support the realization of certain policies. This article is concerned with determining the circumstances in which subsidies may be included in the consideration paid in a transaction and may therefore be subject to VAT, and the extent to which the right to claim input tax credits can be exercised. The authors investigate these questions by discussing the nature of subsidies from the perspective of VAT principles, reviewing the statutory provisions and administrative practices in the European Union and Canada, and analyzing the relevant case law in both jurisdictions.

Keywords: Value-added tax, goods and services tax, subsidies, input tax credit, European Union, grants

Suggested Citation:

van Brederode, Robert and Thang, Simon B., Subsidies and Value-Added Tax: A Comparative Study of Law and Practice in Canada and the European Union (September 30, 2019). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 67, No. 3, 2019, pp. 533-579, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,309
RANK
314,322
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies