Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Administration of Large Taxpayers in Some CEE and CIS Countries

Public Governance, Administration and Finances Law Review Vol. 3. No. 2. (2018)

121 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019

Jasna Bogovac

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Natalia Soloveva

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michal Radvan

Masaryk University - Faculty of Law

Jarosław Marczak

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Natalia Uvarova-Patenko

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We compare tax administration of large taxpayers in Croatia, the Czech Republic, Russia, Poland and Kazakhstan. Our hypothesis is that these units of tax administrations play an important role in collecting public revenue as well as preventing tax evasion in a dynamic global economy. We provide evidences about the most important characteristics of large taxpayer offices, their normative definitions, scope of work and positive as well as negative aspects of their practice. Some data are compared between countries and some for each country separately, due to the fact that differences in the above-mentioned countries, in size, economic and political aspects, vary substantially. Moreover, we were confronted with the limited scope of available information what made our comparison even more challengeable. Therefore, this work is, in a way, a pioneer attempt to compare specific national LTOs in one place. Our findings support the discussion that prove the hypothesis and enable recommendations.

Keywords: Large Taxpayers’ Office; tax administration; public revenue; Croatia; Russia; Poland; Czech Republic; Kazakhstan

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Bogovac, Jasna and Soloveva, Natalia and Radvan, Michal and Marczak, Jarosław and Uvarova-Patenko, Natalia, Tax Administration of Large Taxpayers in Some CEE and CIS Countries (2018). Public Governance, Administration and Finances Law Review Vol. 3. No. 2. (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
168 References
Tax Administration 2015: Comparative Information on OECD and other Advanced and Emerging Economies, or OECD (2010) Forum on Tax Administration, Tax Administration in OECD and Selected Non-OECD Countries: Comparative Information Series Posted: 2015
Crossref
Official Gazette , volume 67 Posted: 2015
Crossref
OECD (2015: 93) evidenced 680 taxpayers, Tax Administration 2015: Comparative Information on OECD and Other Advanced and Emerging Economies Posted: 2016-02
Crossref
Order of Federal Tax Service of Russia № MM-3-06/308@ dated 16 Posted: 2007-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
RANK
759,919
168 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies