Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Capital and Deferred Tax Assets

52 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2019 Last revised: 23 May 2025

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

Anne Ehinger

Florida State University

Cathryn Meegan

Florida State University

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

Insurance regulators substantially relaxed rules on deferred tax asset (DTA) inclusion in regulatory capital calculations during and following the financial crisis. As DTAs are less liquid relative to other assets, our study examines the consequences of admitting DTAs into regulatory capital. We find evidence that higher levels of DTAs admitted into regulatory capital are associated with increased firm risk. At the same time, insurers with higher levels of admitted DTAs are more likely to raise external capital and do raise more external capital. We also examine the effects of relaxed regulation allowing for greater inclusion of DTAs in regulatory capital. We find evidence of increased firm risk with the incremental increase in admitted DTAs. Additionally, we find evidence of decreases in the likelihood and amount of raised external capital with the incremental increase in admitted DTA. This suggests a more nuanced relation between admitted DTAs and capital issuance than reflected in our primary external capital analysis. Our study has important implications for regulators considering future changes to regulatory capital standards. 

Keywords: Deferred Tax Assets, Regulatory Capital, Insurance, Regulation

JEL Classification: G18, G22, H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Evan and Ehinger, Anne and Meegan, Cathryn, Regulatory Capital and Deferred Tax Assets (May 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3461346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3461346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
V V Acharya , M Richardson
Is the insurance industry systemically risky? Modernizing Insurance Regulation , p. 151 - 180 Posted: 2014
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
American Bankers Association and The Clearing House. Regulatory capital limits on deferred tax assets
Tax Asset Bridge Group report Posted: 2009-09-25
American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) Posted: 2023-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,892
RANK
330,157
3 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies