Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mimicking Tax Strategies: Evidence from IPOs

Forthcoming, Management Science

49 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019 Last revised: 25 Apr 2022

James Chyz

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Erin Henry

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Biyu Wu

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: April 9, 2022

Abstract

An IPO is a significant event for an individual firm, and the literature examining IPO firms is extensive. However, there is little evidence on the subsequent effect of a significant IPO on incumbent firms. We extend this literature by using firms’ tax policies as a powerful setting to identify whether incumbent firms respond to a significant IPO in their industry. Specifically, we use a first difference analysis to examine whether incumbent firms herd their effective tax rates (ETRs) toward a significant IPO’s ETR. We provide robust evidence that incumbent firms adjust their ETR either up or down by one to two percentage points, on average, for up to three years following a significant IPO entrance to the industry. Cross-sectional analyses support attention-based and tax-specific motives for herding, and additional analysis documents the market attention-based consequences. Finally, we find that incumbents weigh the benefits of herding against the cost of adjusting their ETR and that incumbent firms use discretionary tax accruals as a less costly mechanism to imitate IPO firms’ GAAP ETRs. We contribute to an IPO literature that focuses almost exclusively on the IPO firm. We extend the literature by providing evidence that a significant IPO in an industry can result in a herding response in incumbent firms’ policy choices.

Keywords: IPO, tax benchmark, herding, strategic reactions

JEL Classification: M41, L21, G24

Suggested Citation:

Chyz, James and Henry, Erin and Omer, Thomas C. and Wu, Biyu, Mimicking Tax Strategies: Evidence from IPOs (April 9, 2022). Forthcoming, Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3463499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
E Allen
The information content of the deferred tax valuation allowance: Evidence from venture capital backed IPO firms Posted: 2019
Y Amihud , S Hauser , A Kirsh
Allocations, adverse selection, and cascades in IPOs: Evidence from the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
J. Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 158 Posted: 2003
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
D Amiram , W Landsman , E Owens , S Stubben
How are analysts' forecasts affected by high uncertainty?
J. Bus. Fin. & Acct , volume 45 , issue 3-4 , p. 40 - 71 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,086
RANK
217,471
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies