Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance in the Rental Housing Market: Evidence from a Field Experiment

VATT Institute for Economic Research Working Papers 122, 2019

39 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2019

Essi Eerola

Bank of Finland - Monetary Policy and Research Department; VATT Institute for Economic Research

Tuomas Kosonen

University of Helsinki - Department of Political and Economic Studies

Kaisa Kotakorpi

University of Turku - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Teemu Lyytikäinen

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research; Spatial Economics Research Centre (SERC)

Jarno Tuimala

Finnish Tax Administration

Date Written: October 3, 2019

Abstract

We study rental income tax compliance using a large-scale randomized field experiment and register data with third-party information on the ownership of apartments. We analyze the responses of potential landlords to treatment letters notifying them of stricter tax enforcement, or providing simplifying information on filing practices for the rental income tax. We find that both types of letters caused an increase in the propensity to report rental income, with letters notifying landlords of the use of third-party information in tax enforcement having the strongest effect. Our research design also allows us to analyze different types of spillover effects in tax enforcement. We find an indication of positive reporting spillovers within the household, but do not find clear evidence of spillovers between landlords in local rental markets.

Keywords: tax compliance, field experiment, rental market

JEL Classification: H26, H31

Suggested Citation:

Eerola, Essi and Kosonen, Tuomas and Kotakorpi, Kaisa and Lyytikäinen, Teemu and Tuimala, Jarno, Tax Compliance in the Rental Housing Market: Evidence from a Field Experiment (October 3, 2019). VATT Institute for Economic Research Working Papers 122, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3464295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3464295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A Alstadsaeter , W Kopczuk , K Telle
Social networks and tax avoidance: Evidence from a well-defined norwegian tax shelter. International Tax and Public Finance forthcoming Posted: 2019
W Boning , J Guyton , Hodge , R H Ii , J Slemrod , U Troiano
Heard it through the grapevine: Direct and network effects of a tax enforcement field experiment Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Brockmeyer , M Hernandez , S Kettle , S Smith
Casting a wider tax net: Experimental evidence from Costa Rica. Mimeo Posted: 2018
Crossref
B Crépon , E Duflo , M Gurgand , R Rathelot , P Zamora
Do labor market policies have displacement effects? evidence from a clustered randomized experiment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 128 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
368,259
6 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies