Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retheorizing Progressive Taxation

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 365

Tax Law Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2019 Last revised: 26 Mar 2021

Manoj Viswanathan

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: October 5, 2019

Abstract

Tax progressivity is undeniably central to both the detailed analytics of tax policy and the rhetorical arguments commonly used in public discourse. Yet there are surprisingly inconsistent and inaccurate uses of this seemingly objective term. By theorizing progressivity’s constitutive elements and identifying its shortcomings, this Article offers a novel taxonomy of how progressivity is assessed and why contradictory assessments are common.

This Article argues that, as a theoretical matter, accurately characterizing tax provisions as progressive (or regressive) requires assessing their burdens beyond simply the tax payments remitted. By failing to account for effects such as economic incidence and inefficiency costs, traditional progressivity analyses are incomplete. Relatedly, since the spending side of the budget process is functionally indistinguishable from taxation, accurate progressivity analyses must also consider where tax revenues are spent.

This Article concludes that inquiring about a tax provision’s progressivity is often to ask the wrong question. Instead, the focus should be on whether the tax provision in question advances whatever normative goals are desired. If progressivity assessments must be used, this Article suggests that earmarked tax assessments—taxes allocated to specific purposes—could improve their accuracy.


Keywords: tax policy

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Viswanathan, Manoj, Retheorizing Progressive Taxation (October 5, 2019). UC Hastings Research Paper No. 365, Tax Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3465029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3465029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Kevin A Hassett , Aparna Mathur , E Gilbert
Crossref
Metcalf
The Incidence of a U.S. Carbon Tax: A Lifetime and Regional Analysis
30 ENERGY J , volume 155 Posted: 2009
See Yair Listokin , Efficiency Equity , Stability
The Importance of Macroeconomics for Evaluating Income Tax Policy
29 YALE J. ON REG Posted: 2012
Macroeconomics is the study of aggregate indicia such as gross domestic product, the growth of output, rates of inflation and unemployment, the balance of payments, and exchange rates on country-level economies
Rudiger Dornbusch et al., MACROECONOMICS , volume 3 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,736
RANK
386,928
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies