Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Missing Miles: Evasion Responses to Car Taxes

VATT Institute for Economic Research Working Papers 123

54 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2019

Jarkko Harju

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Tuomas Kosonen

University of Helsinki - Department of Political and Economic Studies

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: October 3, 2019

Abstract

We study a tax evasion response to car taxes in Finland, where used car importers overstate the mileage to reduce tax liability. First, we develop a tax evasion measure by comparing reported mileage upon import with subsequent information from vehicle inspections, and find that a decline in mileage — "missing miles" — occurs frequently. Second, we analyze a tax rate increase, and observe a reduction in the number of imported used cars, but only among non-evaders. Finally, we analyze an RCT informing some potential importers about a program of inspections that uncover true odometer readings, and the results suggest that third-party reporting reduces evasion.

Keywords: car tax, tax evasion, enforcement measures

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H26, C93

Suggested Citation:

Harju, Jarkko and Kosonen, Tuomas and Slemrod, Joel B., Missing Miles: Evasion Responses to Car Taxes (October 3, 2019). VATT Institute for Economic Research Working Papers 123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3467516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3467516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
P Carrillo , D Pomeranz , M Singhal
Dodging the Taxman: Firm Misreporting and Limits to Tax Enforcement
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 144 - 64 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Fisman , S-J Wei
Tax Rates and Tax Evasion: Evidence from 'Missing Imports' in China
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , issue 2 , p. 471 - 496 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Consumer Market Study on the Functioning of the Market for Second-hand Cars from a Consumer Perspective
European Commission Posted: 2014
H J Kleven , M B Knudsen , C T Kreiner , S Pedersen , E Saez
Unwilling or Unable to Cheat? Evidence from a Tax Audit Experiment in Denmark
Econometrica , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 692 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
961
RANK
872,691
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies