Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mistrusting Trusts: A Study of Exit Tax on Trusts in India

12 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019

Agnishwar Basu

University of North Bengal

Date Written: October 13, 2019

Abstract

The practice of using charitable trusts as tools to evade tax had been increasing in India. To put an end to it, the central government brought in an all new exit tax regime for registered charitable trusts through the introduction of Chapter XII-EB in the income tax laws via Finance Act 2016. This law has been prepared with an objective to restrict the practice of transfer of tax-free resources from registered charitable trusts to non-charitable hands. Any default mentioned in these provisions results into a hefty exit tax burden, calculated at the maximum marginal tax rate on ‘accreted income’ which is based on fair market value of assets. But while formulating such a strict legal provision to catch the offenders, its impact on honest trusts who in fact constitute the majority, does not seem to have been minutely considered. This has resulted in heavy panic among registered NGOs of being randomly penalised. Trusts will now have to be more conscious before undertaking any expansion, making investments or before joining hands with other entities for taking up charitable projects.

This paper, through a case-based approach, links the new legal concept with issues ordinarily faced by trusts and thereby makes an attempt to conceptually examine how the introduction of exit tax mechanism for trusts in income tax laws will affect charitable trusts and institutions registered under section 12AA of the act in freely expanding their scope and area of work. The research methods included careful reading and analysis of the new chapter, related laws, rules and clarifications issued by the CBDT, study of some of the major observations made by income tax tribunals in trust cases and obtaining opinions from tax practitioners and legal experts. The results indicate that there is every possibility to unnecessarily overburden honest trusts with tax liabilities which may lead to reduction of social and charitable activities. It further indicates likelihoods of double taxation which, if end up to be true, will add to the problems faced by trusts and by no mean facilitate social welfare and charitable projects in India.


Keywords: Income Tax, Exit Tax, NGO, Trust, Indian Income Tax

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Agnishwar, Mistrusting Trusts: A Study of Exit Tax on Trusts in India (October 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
G Ahuja , R Gupta
Income Tax Act: as amended by Finance Act Posted: 2017
M S Chana
Charitable trusts a socio legal study with special reference to tax Laws in India Posted: 1992
Clarification on Cancellation of Registration under section 12AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 in Certain Circumstances
Exit Tax where Charitable Institution Converts into Non-Charitable Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
707
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
83,535
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies