Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combining Resource Rent and Income Taxation for Neutral Impact

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 34(3), 2019

43 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019

Wayne Mayo

Independent - Formerly of the Australian Treasury

Date Written: June 24, 2019

Abstract

Income tax subsequent to a resource rent tax (RRT) in the production phase of petroleum resource projects where the risk of losing RRT deductions is low should, in order to maintain the RRT’s neutral impact, be applied: first, to pre‑taxes cash flow cut by the RRT tax rate; and, second, to the minimal‑risk assets created by substitution of RRT loss carry‑forward (with long‑term government bond rate (LTBR) uplift) for immediate cash rebates for losses. Absent income tax on the minimal‑risk assets, RRT loss uplift would be set at a post‑income tax level. Leaving the minimal‑risk assets embedded in aggregate post‑RRT flows for income tax purposes, as under traditional RRT design, justifies uplift at pre‑tax LTBR but, compared to ideal assimilation of RRT and income tax, imposes investment distortions and, potentially, greater income tax impost on investors.

Under ideal or traditional assimilation of RRT and income tax in projects’ production phase, uplifted own‑project exploration expenditure not previously transferred to profitable projects would be pooled and uplifted with production phase expenditures for RRT purposes. In the interests of simplicity, all RRT exploration expenditure would attract RRT uplift at least at pre‑tax LTBR for a period and continue to attract the usual immediate write‑off for income tax purposes.


Suggested Citation:

Mayo, Wayne, Combining Resource Rent and Income Taxation for Neutral Impact (June 24, 2019). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 34(3), 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469948
Purchase - $45
16 References
Post-RRT cash flow less post-RRT cash flow if a pure cash flow tax were applying -that is, column (e) less column (f)
Value in a year equals value in prior year ($400m in Year 0) increased by 5% annual uplift less cash flow in that year (for example
Cash flow in Years 1 to 5 of implicit loan repayments in column (g) plus annual change in value of loan in column (h). Represents "income" component of $400m implicit loan and associated repayments. (j) Taxable income in column (i) associated with minimal-risk asset times 30% income tax rate
Pre-income tax cash flow of minimal-risk asset in column (g) less income tax paid on it in column (j)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
527
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies