Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Appropriate Roles for Equity and Efficiency in a Progressive Individual Income Tax

23 Fla. Tax Rev. 522 (2020)

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 518

75 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2019 Last revised: 27 Jan 2021

James R. Repetti

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: March 20, 2020

Abstract

Increased focus on economic efficiency in formulating tax policy, at the expense of achieving equity, has resulted in decreased rate progressivity in our individual income tax. This decrease has exacerbated inequality.

There are several explanations for the intense focus on efficiency and reduced emphasis on equity. Predictions of efficiency gains from low individual income tax rates appear more certain than equity gains from progressive tax rates. Efficiency gains seem measurable, while equity gains appear intangible and unquantifiable. In addition, distributive justice, which underlies and shapes tax equity, exists in many abstract forms, some of which may not require progressive tax rates.

This Article argues, however, that the emphasis on efficiency is misplaced. Inequality imposes measurable costs on the health, social well-being, and intergenerational mobility of our citizens, as well as on our democratic process. This is corroborated by significant empirical analysis.
In contrast, empirical analysis shows that anticipated efficiency gains from low individual tax rates are speculative. A consensus exists among economists that taxes within the historical range of rates in the United States have little or no impact on labor supply. Moreover, economists cannot agree whether the myriad empirical studies on savings indicate that progressive tax rates decrease, increase, or have no impact on savings in the United States.

The clear harms arising from inequality and the uncertain harms arising from progressive tax rates, strongly support always giving equity at least equal weight with efficiency in formulating tax policy. But given the high level of inequality in the United States and the currently low and flat tax rate structure, equity should be given more weight than efficiency at this time. Emphasizing equity in a progressive individual income tax will contribute to the health and economic mobility of our citizens, as well as the stability of our democracy


Keywords: Tax Policy, Tax Equity, Efficiency, Inequality, Progressive Income Tax Rates

JEL Classification: H20, H21, K34

Suggested Citation:

Repetti, James R., The Appropriate Roles for Equity and Efficiency in a Progressive Individual Income Tax (March 20, 2020). 23 Fla. Tax Rev. 522 (2020), Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 518, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3470360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3470360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E G See , Matthias Jens , Arnold
Tax Policy for Economic Recovery and Growth. 121 eCon
J , volume 59 , p. 62 - 63 Posted: 2011-02
Oguzhan Akgun
However, a more recent 2019 study finds inconclusive results about the impact of the personal income tax relative to other types of taxes. Donatella Baiardi et al., Tax Policy and Economic Growth: Does It Really Matter?, 26 int'l tax puB. fin
The Effects of the Tax Mix On Inequality and Growth 25 (OECD Econ. Dep't Working Papers No. 1447 , volume 282 Posted: 2017
Crossref
William Mcbride
Chye-Ching Huang & Nathaniel Frentz, What Really Is the Evidence on Taxes and Growth? A Reply to the Tax Foundation, Ctr. on Budget & pol'y priorities 1 Posted: 2012-12-18
Crossref
See David Gamage
As discussed in note 236, supra, an economics purist might express concern that even though an individual income tax does not result in aggregate declines in labor or (perhaps) savings, individual taxpayers may have varied their behavior in response to the tax. Those taxpayers who altered their behavior would experience a decline in utility, although the behavior of all taxpayers in the aggregate netted each other out. The problem with this 270. BorJas, supra note 260
The Case for Taxing (All of) Labor Income, Consumption, Capital Income, and Wealth, 68 tax l. rev Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Freddy Juan Torres Marron , Jaime Arturo Callalla Mamani , Carlos Adalberto Román Gil , Abel Romualdo Rosario
Analysis of taxation principles: A systematic review
Multidisciplinary Reviews , volume 8 , issue 10 , p. 2025320 Posted: 2025
Crossref
David Elkins
A Critical Reassessment of the Role of Neutrality in International Taxation
Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2019 · 45 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
751
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,859
RANK
77,338
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies