Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Engineering Pass-Throughs in International Tax: The Case of Private Equity Funds

56 San Diego L. Rev. 707 (2019)

University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 333

72 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019 Last revised: 6 Nov 2019

Young Ran (Christine) Kim

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: October 15, 2019

Abstract

Fund investment, or indirect investment, does not entail entity-level taxation domestically, so investors enjoy “tax neutrality” between direct and indirect investments made within a country. In contrast, when investments are made across borders, tax neutrality cannot be guaranteed because current international tax regimes are built upon bilateral tax treaties and lack pass-through tax rules for multinational fund investment schemes. This may put investors in a worse tax position than had they invested directly.

In response, investors have created many strategies to reduce tax liabilities internationally when investing indirectly. Sometimes those strategies enable investors to pay even less taxes than they would with a tax-neutral benchmark. Recognizing that systematic pass-through taxation more likely would achieve tax neutrality goals, the OECD, through its limited rule-making power, developed several proposals for pass-through treatment. Unfortunately, none of them have been effective, either because of too narrow implementation or because they supply bilateral solutions to a multilateral problem.

As an alternative, this Article proposes an innovative multilateral approach in which both the source country and the residence country may look-through certain fund vehicles in intermediary countries and will collect tax as if the investment was made directly from the residence country to the source country. This Article further develops the proposal by demonstrating its feasibility for private equity funds (PEFs). PEFs offer unique opportunities to reform international pass-through taxation because they tend to have only a handful of high-profile investors who rarely change during the fund’s lifetime. Although information about PEF investors notoriously has been less available to tax authorities, new public and private databases as well as a newly enhanced system for the exchange of tax information make such information now more accessible to governments. Tax authorities will be able to obtain information on the considerably small and manageable number of investors behind PEFs and implement pass-through taxation to realize robust tax neutrality goals.

Keywords: Pass-through taxation, private equity funds, international tax, business tax, partnership tax, tax treaty, OECD, tax transparency, exchange of information, FATCA

JEL Classification: K34, F23, G24, G28,

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Ran (Christine), Engineering Pass-Throughs in International Tax: The Case of Private Equity Funds (October 15, 2019). 56 San Diego L. Rev. 707 (2019), University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 333, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3470429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,436
RANK
379,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies