Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Tax Price on Donations: Evidence from Canada

Melbourne Institute Working Paper No. 8/19, September 2019

47 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2019

Ross Hickey

Faculty of Management

Bradley Minaker

University of Guelph

A. Abigail Payne

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Institute: Applied Economic & Social Research; McMaster University, Department of Economics

Joanne Roberts

Yale NUS College

Justin Smith

Wilfrid Laurier University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 21, 2019

Abstract

Estimating the responsiveness of charitable donations to changes in tax incentives is more than estimating a single number. Giving to charity is unlike normal consumption – it involves supporting the delivery of privately-provided public goods. Age and income may influence how tax incentives to give affect both the decision to give as well as how much to give. Using a large administrative dataset from Canada to estimate the tax price elasticity of donations, we estimate that the tax price elasticity of charitable donations is -1 when it is restricted to be the same for all individuals. Across the income distribution, however, we observe an inverse U-shaped distribution in the elasticity that ranges from -1.4 to -0.18. We also find differences in the elasticity across age groupings, and that for the population the elasticity is driven more through the intensive than extensive margin.

Keywords: donations, charity, tax price elasticity

JEL Classification: H31, H24, H40

Suggested Citation:

Hickey, Ross and Minaker, Bradley and Payne, A. Abigail and Roberts, Joanne and Smith, Justin, The Effect of Tax Price on Donations: Evidence from Canada (September 21, 2019). Melbourne Institute Working Paper No. 8/19, September 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
James Andreoni
Philanthropy
Handbook of Giving, Reciprocity and Altruism , p. 1201 - 1269 Posted: 2006
James Andreoni , A Payne
Handbook of public economics
G Auten , Sieg , C Clotfelter
Charitable giving, income, and taxes: an analysis of panel data
American Economic Review , p. 371 - 382 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Bakija , B T Heim
How does charitable giving respond to incentives and income? New estimates from panel data
National Tax Journal , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 615 - 50 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
265,571
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies