Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Length of Service and Ethical Ideologies on Moral Development and Behavioral Intentions: A Study Among Brazilian Public Sector Tax Auditors

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, DOi:10.1108/JAAR-04-2019-0061,2019

39 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2019

Ricardo Malagueño

University of Essex

Sudarshan Kumar Pillalamarri

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Amaury José Rezende

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Marcelo Botelho da Costa Moraes

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 21, 2019

Abstract

Purpose- This research examines the effects of length of service and ethical ideologies on cognitive moral development and ethical behavioral intentions among public sector tax auditors in Brazil.

Design/methodology/approach- Our research data was collected via survey questionnaires from a sample of 625 auditors who work for the Brazilian tax authority. Participants voluntarily complete an on-line instrument which included three scenarios with context-specific moral dilemmas, questions about the specific scenarios, and an ethics position questionnaire. Multinomial logistic and ordinary least square regressions were used to analyze the data.

Findings- Our findings reveal that a) public sector tax auditors with shorter length of service are more likely to be at higher stages of moral development, b) relativistic ideology among public sector auditors is positively associated with more lenient ethical behavioral intention, c) idealistic ideology among public sector auditors is positively associated with stricter ethical behavioral intention, d) public sector auditors classified as absolutists are stricter in their ethical behavioral intentions, e) public sector auditors classified as absolutists with length of service between 5 to 15 years are more likely to be at higher stages of moral development when compared to public sector tax auditors with longer length of service.

Originality/value- To the best of our knowledge, our study is one of the first studies that attempts to understand the effects of length of service and ethical ideology on cognitive moral development and ethical behavioral intention among public sector auditors. Additionally, it examines these issues in the context Latin America.

Suggested Citation:

Malagueño, Ricardo and Pillalamarri, Sudarshan Kumar and Rezende, Amaury José and Botelho da Costa Moraes, Marcelo, The Effects of Length of Service and Ethical Ideologies on Moral Development and Behavioral Intentions: A Study Among Brazilian Public Sector Tax Auditors (October 21, 2019). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, DOi:10.1108/JAAR-04-2019-0061,2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473141 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3473141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
M J Abdolmohammadi , Ariail , D
A test of the selection-socialization theory in moral reasoning of CPAs in industry practice
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J R Afonso , J M Soares , K P Castro
Evaluation of the structure and performance of the Brazilian tax system: white paper on taxation in Brazil
Inter-American Development Bank Posted: 2013
J Alm , J Martínez-Vázquez
Tax Morale and Tax Evasion in Latin America Posted: 2007
C D Bailey , I Scott , S J Thoma
Revitalizing accounting ethics research in the neo-Kohlbergian framework: putting the DIT into perspective
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
944
RANK
792,195
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies