Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act GILTI of Anti-Simplification?

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 38, No. 315, Spring 2019

70 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2019

Christine Davis

University of Florida, Levin College of Law, Students

Date Written: April 12, 2019

Abstract

In December 2017, Congress enacted tax reform legislation, commonly referred to as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” or “TCJA,” which fundamentally changed the United States’ international corporate taxation system. The TCJA was enacted quickly; the bill was signed into law less than 2 months after the House of Representatives introduced it. Since that time, tax professionals across the United States and around the world have worked overtime to try to understand the new tax laws. Now that the U.S. Treasury Department is releasing and requesting comments on proposed tax regulations, practitioners must have a thorough understanding of the TCJA. This paper attempts to reduce the complexity of the TCJA’s international tax provisions by examining global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) and its interaction with other provisions that implement income taxation of cross border corporations. First, this article outlines corporate income taxation after the TCJA’s enactment, and demonstrates how GILTI, the Section 245A deduction, and the other international tax law provisions are integrated into the corporation income tax scheme. Second, a hypothetical cross border corporation is analyzed to demonstrate the calculation of income tax, including the determination of GILTI, Section 245A deductions, and the foreign tax credit. Third, the article highlights how the current tax system, after the TCJA, is really a hybrid system where some income is taxed as part of the exemption or territorial tax system, while other amounts are still taxed as part of the worldwide tax/foreign tax credit system, which significantly increases the complexity of the United States’ international corporate income tax regime.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, TCJA, Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, GILTI, Section 951A, International Tax, Corporation Tax, Foreign Tax Credit, FTC, Previously Taxed Income, Section 959, Territorial Taxation, Exemption System

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Christine, Is the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act GILTI of Anti-Simplification? (April 12, 2019). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 38, No. 315, Spring 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3473417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
284,192
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies