Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial findings on how individuals may indirectly influence tax and spend in Sweden, Germany and the United States

Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 19-34

Yvette Lind, Initial findings on how individuals may indirectly influence tax and spend in Sweden, Germany and the United States, Intertax, vol. 48 no. 5, 2020, pp. 482-497

16 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019 Last revised: 1 Nov 2021

Yvette Lind

Department of Law and Governance at BI Norwegian Business School

Date Written: October 23, 2019

Abstract

Ongoing globalization and increased taxpayer mobility not only exacerbate already existing shortcomings when allocating taxing rights but also challenges formal citizenship as the basis for bestowing political rights and benefits as this practise instigates states to utilize citizenship as a tax incentive when attracting high-income earners, high-skilled workers and high-net value individuals. Challenging the traditional perception of formal citizenship as one may argue that this practise erodes its value and meaning in addition to highlighting the differentiation between individuals with reference to economic status.

At present time, mobile individuals may as a result of disparities between tax allocation, formal citizenship and voting privileges contribute financially to a state yet not have the possibility to exercise influence over their situation due to the lack of formal citizenship and voting privileges in said state. The group who may influence taxation and public spending through voting is therefore not always the same as those who pay taxes. This issue is naturally complex as the group of individuals excluded from such political influencing is a highly diverse group, reaching from high-net individuals to state-less persons seeking asylum, subject to individual circumstances and needs.

This paper separates itself from previous research within the tax scholarship as it does not focus on tax nexus or the right to participate in democratic influencing but rather on how individuals may influence tax legislation and public spending themselves other than through traditional voting. Tax rules and constitutionals safeguards offering taxpayer protection gathered from Sweden, Germany and the U.S. are introduced in order to describe and to what extent a taxpayer may exercise such influencing. The paper concludes that affluent individuals often have greater access to such legal instruments and subsequently indicates that political power is awarded to the few rather than the many. Arguing a present need to revise how political rights and benefits are allocated, both on a domestic level but also in the international context.

Keywords: Tax law, Politicial rights, Taxpayer mobility, Political equity, Comparative law

JEL Classification: K34, H20, K4, P16

Suggested Citation:

Lind, Yvette, Initial findings on how individuals may indirectly influence tax and spend in Sweden, Germany and the United States (October 23, 2019). Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 19-34, Yvette Lind, Initial findings on how individuals may indirectly influence tax and spend in Sweden, Germany and the United States, Intertax, vol. 48 no. 5, 2020, pp. 482-497 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3474232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3474232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
DE: §350 of the Fiscal Code. 84 SE: Tax Procedures Act (Skatteförfarandelag (2011:1244)), Ch. 66, § § 2, 6 and 7
K Almgren , B Leidhammar
Zeteo Commentary to the Swedish Procedures Act Posted: 2019-05-10
SE: Tax Procedures Act (Skatteförfarandelag (2011:1244)), Ch. 67, § §2 , volume 6
SE: Tax Procedures Act (Skatteförfarandelag (2011:1244)), Ch. 67, §2, para
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
682,707
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies