Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Media Campaigns on Tax Filing: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from Pakistan

Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Research Paper Series No. 19-13

41 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019

Antonios Koumpias

University of Michigan at Dearborn - Department of Social Sciences

Jorge Martinez-Vazquez

Georgia State University - Andrew Young School of Policy Studies

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of mass media campaigns on income tax filing using survey data from Pakistan. We use information collected about a pro-tax filing communication campaign shortly after the 2013-14 tax filing deadline by Pakistan’s Federal Board of Revenue. We use an inverse probability-weighted regression adjustment estimator to construct comparable treatment and control groups in terms of media exposure and control for predictors of income tax filing. We find that respondents’ likelihood of income tax filing significantly increased in response to exposure to newspaper advertisements of information provision surrounding tax eligibility but not those concerning the tax filing deadline or the benefits associated with tax filing in the form of non-application of financial penalties. TV advertisements that relied on moral suasion and solely portrayed self-employed taxpayers did not significantly improve tax filing for the entire survey population but were effective among the self-employed. This highlights the importance of the content of the message as well as the implementation of targeted media campaigns by a tax administration to enhance income tax filing.

Keywords: personal income tax, income tax filing, tax compliance, tax morale, nudging, Pakistan

JEL Classification: H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Koumpias, Antonios and Martinez-Vazquez, Jorge, The Impact of Media Campaigns on Tax Filing: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from Pakistan (February 2019). Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Research Paper Series No. 19-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3475614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3475614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , F Schneider
Sizing' the problem of the hard-to-tax
Taxing the hard-to-tax: Lessons from theory and practice , p. 11 - 75 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of economic psychology , issue 2 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
649,413
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Decision-Making in Economics & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies