Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Code Section 304 The Gift That Keeps on Giving

17 ATA J. LEGAL TAX RSCH. 25 (2019)

30 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2019 Last revised: 11 May 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Melanie McCoskey

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 01, 2019

Abstract

One central focus of the TCJA was to encourage U.S. international firms to "bring back earnings to the U.S." In an attempt to achieve this goal, the legislation enacted Section 245A, which provides a 100% DRD to U.S. corporations for certain foreign-sourced distributions. Section 304 requires the reclassification of stock sales between affiliated corporations as dividends. However, for many years, Code Section 304 was not fulfilling the original "anti-avoidance" tax policy that was behind its legislation, as is explained in this paper. Currently, the TCJA has created an opportunity to utilize Section 304 and Section 245A via a much more powerful tax planning tool. By utilizing the rules related to redemptions by related corporations under the (purportedly) anti-abuse provisions of Section 304 combined with the new 100% DRD of Section 245A, extracting earnings from affiliated foreign corporations tax-free has never been easier. This paper will discuss these two Code Sections and the micro-policy behind them The paper will then explain how they interact with each other and the resulting ability to extract certain foreign-sourced earnings tax-free. The paper will then finally suggest a legislative solution to fix this result and achieve parity between domestic U.S. corporations and foreign corporations.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, International Tax, Tax Policy, Code Section 304, Code Section 245A, Tax Planning

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and McCoskey, Melanie, Code Section 304 The Gift That Keeps on Giving (June 01, 2019). 17 ATA J. LEGAL TAX RSCH. 25 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3475695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
RANK
672,864
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies