Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GILTI: The Co-operative Potential of a Unilateral Minimum Tax

2019 Brit. Tax Rev. 512

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 713

27 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019 Last revised: 13 May 2020

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: October 28, 2019

Abstract

Prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), the US allowed US parented multinationals to delay indefinitely their payment of US corporate income tax on non-US income earned by non-US corporate subsidiaries (CFCs). The TCJA revoked this permission through the enactment of a unilateral, current minimum tax on the “global intangible low-taxed income” (GILTI) of CFCs. The post-TCJA US international tax law generally imposes current US tax on CFC income subject to reductions for foreign income taxes paid or accrued. This US regime supports the continued existence of a corporate income tax and presents an opportunity to co-ordinate the details of corporate income tax systems globally. Similarity among systems, for instance with respect to rate, timing and base, would further strengthen the corporate income tax and perhaps support innovations such as formulary apportionment. US tax administrators, non-US governments and taxpayers will each play a role in negotiating the details of international corporate income tax law going forward and in determining whether and on what terms these details converge.

Note: “This material was first published by Thomson Reuters, trading as Sweet & Maxwell, 5 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AQ, in the British Tax Review as GILTI: The Co-operative Potential of a Unilateral Minimum Tax [2019] BTR, No. 4 and is reproduced by agreement with the publishers”.

Keywords: TCJA, GILTI, minimum tax, cooperation, corporate income tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., GILTI: The Co-operative Potential of a Unilateral Minimum Tax (October 28, 2019). 2019 Brit. Tax Rev. 512, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 713, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3476645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
E See , Toder
International Competitiveness: Who Competes Against Whom and For What Posted: 2012
L Tax , Rev
Crossref
G K See , Yin
Crafting Structural Tax Legislation in a Highly Polarized Congress Posted: 2018
&amp; Law , Contemp , Probs
241 (noting the "hasty and secretive manner
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
RANK
204,172
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies