Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Induced Internal Liquidity Shocks, Investor Types, and Firm Payout Policy

43 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019 Last revised: 12 Jun 2025

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Erik Olson

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

This study explores how companies' investor base moderates their share repurchase decisions following the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017. The one-time transition tax imposed by the TCJA offered a favorable tax rate on previously untaxed foreign earnings, thereby creating an internal liquidity shock for U.S. MNCs by lowering the high tax cost of accessing foreign cash that was previously "trapped". In accordance with agency theory, we predict and find that firms with relatively lower agency frictions repurchase fewer shares following the TCJA relative to those with greater agency frictions. These findings illuminate the nuanced interplay between fiscal policy, investor composition, and corporate strategies and extend our understanding of how taxes impact corporate financial behavior. Our findings underscore the importance of considering investor composition in corporate financial decision-making, particularly in the wake of significant tax-induced cash windfalls such as those introduced by the TCJA.

Keywords: Cash, Tax, Corporate Payout, Payout Policy, Stock Repurchases, Dividends, Investment, Fiscal Policy, Firm Behavior, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Institutional Investors G35, G32, G23, M40, H32, H30, H20, F23

JEL Classification: G35, G32, G23, M40, H32, H30, H20, F23

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Olson, Erik and Stomberg, Bridget, Tax-Induced Internal Liquidity Shocks, Investor Types, and Firm Payout Policy (November 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3479506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3479506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,957
RANK
197,037
3 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies