Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An History of US Tax Code Complexity within Computer-Based Return Preparation

Accounting & Taxation, v. 11 (1) p. 47-57

11 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2020

Robert J. Walsh

University of Dallas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The current income tax system in the United States is extraordinarily complex. Efforts like the tax law changes in 2017 have done little to lessen the overall compliance burden. There are a variety of reasons for this – some intentional and some accidental. This paper examines one of the accidental reasons - the history of growing computer technology over the past 50 years and its effects on increasing tax complexity in the US. A “black box” phenomenon of tax preparation that exists today has grown from an inconspicuous start by merely desiring arithmetic on the tax forms to be accurate. Decades later, it is easy to conclude that absent this enormous growth in computer technology, US lawmakers could not possibly have passed and continue to pass laws into such a convoluted tax system. Whether it is optimal for a tax system to be so “disguised” from the taxpayer is debatable, particularly with other parties, like the Internal Revenue Service and tax preparation companies like Intuit having so much now invested in this electronic process

Keywords: Computer, Tax Preparation, Tax Complexity

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Walsh, Robert J., An History of US Tax Code Complexity within Computer-Based Return Preparation (2019). Accounting & Taxation, v. 11 (1) p. 47-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
W Afonso
A Lack of Transparency is Leading to Fiscal Illusion Where Citizens Underestimate Their Tax Burdens and the Cost of Government Posted: 2014
Anonymous 1. (1973) The Journal of Accountancy. October, 30. Anonymous 2. (1974) The Journal of Accountancy Posted: 1926-06
J Blank , L Osofsky
Simplexity: Plain Language and the Tax Law
Emory Law Journal , volume 66 , p. 189 - 267 Posted: 2017
Brink , L Lee
The Effect of Tax Preparation Software on Tax Compliance: A Research Note
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 121 , p. 130 - 131 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
RANK
381,120
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies