Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing VAT Fraud in Developing Countries: The Tax Policy-Administration Symbiosis

(2019) Intertax 47/11, 950-967

18 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2019 Last revised: 8 Oct 2021

Rita de la Feria

University of Leeds

Anculien Schoeman

University of Pretoria

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

Tax administration is often perceived as separate from tax policy, and at best as the implementation of tax policy. The aim of this article is to highlight the necessary mutual dependence that exists between tax policy and administration, designated here as tax policy-administration symbiosis. It employs the case-study of VAT fraud in African countries, where this phenomenon is thought to be commonplace, to consider the range of anti-VAT fraud measures that have been installed in those developing contexts. It is argued that fighting this fraud requires a concerted approach that encompasses various twinned measures of both a legal/policy and administrative nature; in contrast, ad hoc measures, whether legal or administrative, are unlikely to yield as significant results. Specifically, it is defended that administrative measures which seek to enhance compliance are at their most effective when adopted in conjunction with, or in the context of, a legal system that has been designed to minimize the incidence of fraud. Conversely, whilst policy measures can significantly contribute to an increase in VAT compliance in developing countries – particularly through the introduction of a broad base – such measures will be most effective when adopted in conjunction with administrative measures that take into account the administrative constraints, as well as other social factors, that are often present in those settings. The article concludes by asserting that combating VAT fraud in developing countries requires recognition of the wider dynamics of the tax policy-administration symbiosis.

Keywords: tax fraud, tax policy, tax administration, VAT, developing countries

Suggested Citation:

de la Feria, Rita and Schoeman, Anculien, Addressing VAT Fraud in Developing Countries: The Tax Policy-Administration Symbiosis (November 1, 2019). (2019) Intertax 47/11, 950-967, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3481861 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3481861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
Imf
R De Mooij , & M Keen
The Evolution of Potential VAT Revenues and C-Efficiency in Advanced Economies Posted: 2012
Cnossen
, volume 46
M Keen
The Anatomy of the VAT
Nat'l Tax J , volume 66 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,529
RANK
95,379
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies