Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Subsidy Information and Local Economic Effects

Conditionally accepted, Journal of Accounting Research

83 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2019 Last revised: 24 Oct 2024

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Aneesh Raghunandan

Yale School of Management

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine if the effectiveness of business tax subsidies varies based on state disclosure laws. The prior accounting literature on government disclosure documents substantial variation in the quality of such disclosures, raising questions about their effectiveness for monitoring. State and local business subsidies for investment and employment have tripled in size over the past thirty years (Bartik, 2019), but transparency problems inhibit clear assessments of whether subsidies achieve their intended outcomes. We examine both internal disclosure laws, which mandate subsidy reporting by the granting state agency to other state oversight agencies, and external disclosure laws, which mandate reporting to the public. We find positive effects of subsidies on local employment when subsidies are subject to internal disclosure laws; by implementing such regimes, governments could forego 1.2-1.7 subsequent subsidies per county, saving  $419.0-$593.5 million in aggregate. In contrast, we observe little effect of external disclosure, which we show is due to governments either substituting to other types of incentives or posting stale information that impedes public monitoring. We contribute to the government disclosure literature by demonstrating the real employment effects of internal government disclosures, and we provide policy-relevant evidence about the conditions under which external disclosure regimes facilitate public monitoring.

Keywords: Business taxes, Subsidies, Employment, Local information

JEL Classification: G38, H25, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Lester, Rebecca and Raghunandan, Aneesh, Tax Subsidy Information and Local Economic Effects (October 24, 2024). Conditionally accepted, Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3482207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3482207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
J Anderson , R And , Wassmer
The decision to 'bid for business': Municipal behavior in granting property tax abatements
Regional Science and Urban Economics , volume 25 , p. 739 - 757 Posted: 1995
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
The politics of government resource allocation: Evidence from U.S. state government awarded economic incentives Posted: 2021
B Austin , E Glaeser , L Summers
Saving the heartland: Place-based policies in 21st Century America
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity Posted: 2018
W Baber , A Gore
Consequences of GAAP Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from Municipal Debt Issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 565 - 591 Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Hua Sun , Hongkang Xu
Government Subsidies and Operational Efficiency: Evidence From the United States
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 230 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Justin Chircop , Monika Tarsalewska , Agnieszka Trzeciakiewicz
<p><b>Government Contracting and Wage Compliance</b></p>
50 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 611
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dian Jiao , Aneesh Raghunandan , Shivaram Rajgopal , Min Jun Song
Mandatory US Subsidy Disclosures: Early Evidence
56 Pages · Posted: 13 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 18 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 308
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,838
RANK
56,255
3 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies