Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethnicity and Tax Filing Behavior

Journal of Urban Economics, Vol 116, Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2019 Last revised: 6 Dec 2019

Spencer Bastani

IFAU - Institute for Labour Market Policy Evaluation; Uppsala University - Department of Economics; Research Institute of Industrial Economics (IFN); Uppsala University - Uppsala Center for Fiscal Studies; Uppsala Center for Labor Studies and Department of Economics

Thomas Giebe

Linnaeus University - Department of Economics and Statistics

Chizheng Miao

Linnaeus University - Department of Economics and Statistics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 9, 2019

Abstract

We analyze differences in tax filing between natives and immigrants, focusing on two empirical examples. First, we study deductions for costs associated with traveling between home and work allowed in the Swedish tax code. Using the total population of commuters within Sweden's largest commuting zone, we find that newly arrived immigrants file substantially less than natives, immigrants with a longer stay behave more like natives, and immigrants with the longest stay file the most, even more than natives. Second, we analyze bunching behavior among the self-employed at a large salient kink point of the Swedish income tax schedule. We find much less bunching among immigrants, even after a long time in the host country, and the largest differences relative to natives in residential areas with a high immigrant concentration. Our findings have implications for the equity and efficiency of the tax system and the spatial patterns of residential and occupational choices for different ethnic groups.


Keywords: deductions, tax filing, bunching, immigrants, natives, integration

JEL Classification: D31, H21, H24, H26, J22, J61, R23

Suggested Citation:

Bastani, Spencer and Giebe, Thomas and Miao, Chizheng, Ethnicity and Tax Filing Behavior (November 9, 2019). Journal of Urban Economics, Vol 116, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3484019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
O Åslund , O Åslund , D Rooth
Do when and where matter? Initial labour market conditions and immigrant earnings
Reg. Sci. Urban Econ , volume 35 , p. 422 - 448 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Abeler , S Jäger
Complex tax incentives
Am. Econ. J.: Econ. Policy , volume 7 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Aftonbladet
Då Har du Rätt Att Göra Reseavdrag Posted: 2018
P Aghion , U Akcigit , M Lequien , S Stantcheva
Tax Simplicity and Heterogeneous Learning
Banque de France Working Paper Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Spencer Bastani , Daniel Waldenström
The Ability Gradient in Bunching
IZA Discussion Paper No. 13141 · 33 Pages · Posted: 20 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Spencer Bastani , Daniel Waldenström
The Ability Gradient in Bunching
CESifo Working Paper No. 8233 · 33 Pages · Posted: 24 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Spencer Bastani , Daniel Waldenström
The Ability Gradient in Bunching
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP14599 · 34 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2020 · Downloads: 2
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Sarah Xue Dong , Mathias Sinning
Trying to Make a Good First Impression: A Natural Field Experiment to Engage New Entrants to the Tax System
IZA Discussion Paper No. 14253 · 32 Pages · Posted: 10 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 16 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 41
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
944
5 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies