Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don’t shoot yourself in the foot! A (real-effort task) experiment on income redistribution and voting.

45 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2019 Last revised: 21 Oct 2021

Natalia Jimenez Jimenez

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Elena Molis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Angel Solano-García

Universidad de Granada

Date Written: October 15, 21

Abstract

According to the World Inequality Database 2020, income inequality has increased in almost all countries in recent decades. Nevertheless, top tax rates on upper-income earners have declined during the same period. This empirical evidence seems not to support models based on the median voter theorem as the one proposed by Meltzer and Richard (1981). To shed some light on this contradictory evidence, this paper reports results from a laboratory experiment that investigates the Meltzer–Richard model of equilibrium tax rates in which individuals face a real-effort task that includes leisure at the work place. We classify participants into high-skilled and low-skilled workers, according to their performance in a tournament at the beginning of the experiment. They vote over two (high and low) exogenous tax rates and their pre-tax income is determined according to their performance in a real-effort task and also to the skill premium. We find that a large proportion of low-skilled workers vote for the lowest tax rate (the one that gives them the lowest payoff), especially when the alternative tax rate is very high. However, this proportion is significantly reduced in treatments in which the subjects are given extra information about how the tax operates in redistributing income. This result suggests that the lack of information about the role of taxes in income redistribution may be an important factor in explaining the counter-intuitive voting behavior of low-income voters over income redistribution. We also find some support that the prospect of upward mobility and the belief in the negative effect of taxes on productivity make low-income voters support low tax rates, especially when the alternative tax rate is very high.

Keywords: income inequality, income redistribution, voting, taxation, real-effort task.

JEL Classification: C92, D72, H30, J41

Suggested Citation:

Jimenez Jimenez, Natalia and Molis, Elena and Solano-García, Angel, Don’t shoot yourself in the foot! A (real-effort task) experiment on income redistribution and voting. (October 15, 21). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3485548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3485548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
L F Ackert , J Martinez-Vazquez , M Rider
Social Preferences and Tax Policy Design: Some Experimental Evidence
Economic Inquiry , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 487 - 501 Posted: 2007
M Agranov , T R Palfrey
Equilibrium Tax Rates and Income Redistribution: A laboratory Study
Journal of Public Economics , volume 130 , p. 45 - 58 Posted: 2015
M Agranov , T R Palfrey
The Effects of Income Mobility and Tax Persistence onIncome Redistribution and Inequality
The American Economic Review , volume 123 , issue 4 , p. 960 - 980 Posted: 2005
I Almås , A W Cappelen , B Tungodden
Cutthroat Capitalism versus Cuddly Socialism: Are Americans More Meritocratic and Efficiency-Seeking than Scandinavians?
Journal of Political Economy , volume 128 , issue 5 , p. 1753 - 1788 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
994
RANK
672,864
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies