Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Competition and Employment

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2019 Last revised: 6 Apr 2023

Stephen Glaeser

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Marcel Olbert

London Business School

Ann-Catherin Werner

University of Mannheim Business School

Date Written: December 12, 2019

Abstract

We examine how exposure to international tax competition affects domestic firms’ employment. Consistent with prior work, we find evidence that reductions in foreign tax rates affect the domestic competitive environment via increases in import competition and investment in foreign-owned subsidiaries. We posit that these changes in the domestic competitive environment can cause managers to reduce their firms’ employment levels. Consistent with our expectation, we find that relative decreases in foreign tax rates negatively affect total labor compensation at domestic firms ex ante exposed to import competition and competition from foreign-owned peers. The effect of exposure to tax competition is greater for firms more exposed to product market competition and those that are less able to expand investment without also increasing employment levels. Taken together, our results suggest that foreign tax rate changes can affect managers’ domestic employment decisions by changing the domestic competitive environment.

Keywords: Tax competition, Competition, Employment, Real effects, Trade

JEL Classification: E24, F14, F16, H23, H35

Suggested Citation:

Glaeser, Stephen and Olbert, Marcel and Werner, Ann-Catherin, Tax Competition and Employment (December 12, 2019). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3485551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3485551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
D Acemoglu , D Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson , B Price
Import Competition and the Great US Employment Sag of the
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 34 , issue S1 , p. S141 - S198 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and Innovation: An Inverted-U Relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial Constraints, Asset Tangibility, and Corporate Investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Antonio De Vito , Martin Jacob , Dirk Schindler , Guosong Xu
How do corporate tax hikes affect investment allocation within multinationals?
74 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 23 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 315
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,421
RANK
114,604
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies