Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Litigation and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2019

Matteo P. Arena

Marquette University - Department of Finance

Bin Wang

Marquette University - College of Business Administration

Rong Yang

Rochester Institute of Technology

Date Written: November 2019

Abstract

We examine whether litigation risk is systematically related to corporate tax avoidance. We find that the exogenous reduction in the threat of securities class action litigation due to the 1999 ruling of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals effectively increases corporate tax avoidance, which is consistent with the notion that the threat of shareholder litigation plays a disciplinary role in curbing managerial rent extraction from tax avoidance activities. This finding is robust to alternative model specifications including two placebo tests and propensity score matching. We further find that labor union and alternative external governance mechanisms such as analyst coverage and institutional ownership mitigate this effect. Overall, our paper provides a significant contribution to the understanding of the relation between corporate governance and tax avoidance.

Keywords: securities class action litigation, corporate lawsuits, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: G30, H25, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Arena, Matteo P. and Wang, Bin and Yang, Rong, Securities Litigation and Corporate Tax Avoidance (November 2019). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3485731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S D Dyreng , B P Lindsey , J R Thornock
Exploring the role Delaware plays as a domestic tax haven
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 751 - 772 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Dyreng , M Hanlon , E Maydew
Long-run corporate tax avoidance
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 61 - 82 Posted: 2008
Crossref
O Faleye , V Mehrotra , R Morck
When labor has a voice in corporate governance
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 41 , p. 489 - 510 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D B Farber
Restoring trust after fraud: does corporate governance matter?
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 539 - 561 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
RANK
370,049
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies