Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The General Anti-Avoidance Rule

51 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2019 Last revised: 26 Apr 2024

Mary Cowx

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Jon N. Kerr

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 25, 2024

Abstract

The general anti-avoidance rule, or GAAR, is an enforcement mechanism that gives a country’s taxing authority broad power to deny a taxpayer tax benefits associated with any transaction. Although GAARs are becoming increasingly common, the presence of a GAAR is generally overlooked by researchers, and thus left unstudied. In this paper, we provide an initial investigation by studying the effect of GAARs on firm-level corporate tax avoidance behaviors. Using an indicator for the enactment or strengthening of a GAAR within a country in a stacked difference-in-differences design, we find GAAR enactment is associated with a statistically and economically significant decrease in firm-level tax avoidance. Additional cross-sectional analyses show that the decline in tax avoidance occurs for conventional GAARs and economic substance-type rules, original and strengthened GAARs, and domestic and multinational firms. Results also show that the effect is strongest for firms with higher levels of pre-GAAR enactment tax avoidance and for firms incorporated in countries where the burden of proof lies with the taxpayer.

Keywords: general anti-avoidance rule, GAAR, tax avoidance, tax policy, international, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cowx, Mary and Kerr, Jon N., The General Anti-Avoidance Rule (April 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3485084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3485084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
E Aaltonen
GAAR of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive: Interpretation and Effects on the Finnish GAAR of VML 28 Posted: 2017
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
V R Almendral
Tax avoidance and the European Court of Justice: What is at stake for European General Anti-Avoidance Rules
Intertax , volume 33 , p. 560 - 582 Posted: 2005
T Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
769
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,147
RANK
74,954
4 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies