Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Uniform Capital Taxation in a Partially Automated Society

87 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2019 Last revised: 13 Jan 2020

Hideto Koizumi

Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (RIETI); Hitotsubashi University

Date Written: October 22, 2019

Abstract

A recent rapid-automation movement has been displacing routine labor and has sparked a series of discussion about taxation on automation such as a robot tax. However, the government's dilemma is that the planner may want to tax such physical capital that displaces routine labor--for example, industrial robots--for redistributive motives but does not want to tax other physical capital that increases such workers' productivities for instance, collaborative robots (cobots). This paper studies a novel setting of the optimal capital taxation on physical capital in which there is asymmetric information on both labor types and capital types between the planner and market. In particular, my model focuses on a two-by-two scenario where there are two types of labor (routine and non-routine labor) and two types of capital (displacing and reinstating capital). Despite asymmetric information, I find that the optimal uniform capital tax rate over different types of capital is strictly positive, as long as the solution is interior.

Keywords: Automation, Optimal Capital Taxation, Optimal Taxation, Robot Tax

JEL Classification: H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Koizumi, Hideto, Optimal Uniform Capital Taxation in a Partially Automated Society (October 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3486827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3486827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
Robots and jobs: Evidence from us labor markets Posted: 2017
Crossref
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Automation and new tasks: How technology displaces and reinstates labor Posted: 2019
Crossref
P Aghion , U Akcigit , J Fernández-Villaverde
Optimal capital versus labor taxation with innovation-led growth Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,095
RANK
677,757
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies