Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a 21st-Century International Tax Regime

“Toward a 21st-Century International Tax Regime,” Tax Notes International, Aug. 26, 2019, pp. 839-849.

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 656

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-001

13 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2019 Last revised: 13 Feb 2020

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Kimberly A. Clausing

UCLA School of Law; Peterson Institute for International Economics

Date Written: August 26, 2019

Abstract

The OECD has been struggling to respond to countries that wish to tax large US technology companies on the basis of where their consumers live. The current OECD work program on digitalization is unlikely to produce a stable consensus or prevent countries from following the lead of France, India, Italy and the United Kingdom toward digital services taxes. The United States response should not be to target French, Indian, Italian or British companies for retaliation. Instead, the United States should consider adopting a sales-based formulary apportionment (SFA) solution that would apply to all large enterprises. Such a move is more likely to lead to a stable outcome than the OECD proposals. SFA also has important advantages relative to other proposals such as Residual Profit Allocation by Income (RPA-I) or the Destination Basis Cash Flow Tax (DBCFT).

Keywords: international taxation, formulary apportionment, base erosion, profit shifting

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Clausing, Kimberly A., Toward a 21st-Century International Tax Regime (August 26, 2019). “Toward a 21st-Century International Tax Regime,” Tax Notes International, Aug. 26, 2019, pp. 839-849. , U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 656, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Kimberly A. Clausing , Emmanuel Saez , Gabriel Zucman
Ending Corporate Tax Avoidance and Tax Competition: A Plan to Collect the Tax Deficit of Multinationals
UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 20-12 · 20 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 23 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 3,397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
924
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,211
RANK
58,342
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies