Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contemptuous Tax Reporting

Wisconsin Law Review, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2019

Israel Klein

Ariel University - Department of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: November 18, 2019

Abstract

The use of self-reporting and self-assessment principles in the collection of corporate income tax means that companies are not subject to administrative tax assessment and ex-ante examination of tax positions taken, but rather to infrequent ex-post examination of tax returns submitted by their managers. Thus, while acting as the government’s agents for the purpose of assessing corporate taxes, managers can engage in contemptuous self-reporting that involves knowingly reporting tax positions that do not conform to the tax code and prevailing tax doctrines.

According to estimates provided by Congress, US companies will enjoy more than 25 billion dollars of R&D incentives in 2019 & 2020. The majority thereof will come from self-reported R&D credits claimed on companies’ tax returns. While being one of the most expensive tax expenditures claimed by corporations in the federal budget, this article argues that R&D tax incentives provide a prominent example of contemptuous tax reporting in which managers knowingly take positions that contradict prevailing tax doctrines.

This article presents a novel conceptualization of contemptuous tax reporting along with empirical findings that point to the tremendous loss of tax revenues resulting from such abusive tax behavior by S&P 500 companies. Moreover, the article overcomes the challenges existing scholars face when empirically analyzing corporate tax behavior as a single homogenous phenomenon even though, normatively speaking, it encompasses both legal tax avoidance and illegal tax evasion.
Following the analysis of additional empirical findings, showing a significant positive correlation between R&D expenditures and contemptuous tax reporting, this article further contributes by proposing measures for minimizing contemptuous tax reporting with respect to inflated or intentionally miscategorized R&D expenditures.


Keywords: taxation, tax, corporate tax, tax avoidance, tax evasion, FIN 48, tax compliance

JEL Classification: K34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Klein, Israel, Contemptuous Tax Reporting (November 18, 2019). Wisconsin Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3489334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
and ability to sell the asset in the future), see Ernst &Young, US GAAP versus IFRS the basic
comparison between R&D disclosures rules under US-GAAP and IFRS) , volume 16 Posted: 2011
Any other GAAP practice would result in companies able to divert expenses into assets-instead of reporting R&D expense, companies would have reported new assets. 195 See supra note 156
&amp; Ernst , Young
supra note 192 (some sporadic exceptions exist, such as in respect to software development)
See supra note 87
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
427,404
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies