Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Earning Management in Pakistan

34 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2019

Suresh Kumar Oad Rajput

Sukkur IBA University

Jahanzeb Marwat

Sukkur IBA University

Date Written: November 21, 2019

Abstract

Tax avoidance and evasion are major problems in Pakistan. The study attempts to provide information to investors and regulatory authorities of Pakistan about tax avoidance and its consequences. Book Effective Tax Rate (BETR) and Cash Effective Tax Rate (CETR) are used to measure tax avoidance. The unbalanced panel data of 189 non-financial firms are used for empirical analysis. The results of panel regression models show that managers manipulate the profitability signal via tax avoidance. Managers use tax avoidance to beat earnings targets, however, no evidence found to practice tax avoidance to just meet the profitability margin. In line with the behavioral finance view, the quick response of the stock market is positive to tax avoidance because investors focus on profitability without detail screening of cash flows. However, tax avoider firms are likely to have lower future profitability and future stock returns than other benchmark firms.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Tax evasion, Profitability, Stock returns, Earning management

JEL Classification: H26, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Oad Rajput, Suresh Kumar and Marwat, Jahanzeb, Tax Avoidance and Earning Management in Pakistan (November 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
891
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,845
RANK
61,409
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies