Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Reassessment of the Role of Neutrality in International Taxation

Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2019

45 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2019

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: July 15, 2019

Abstract

Neutrality plays a central role in the literature on international taxation. In its most prevalent form, the concept of neutrality posits that in order to maximize aggregate global welfare, capital needs to flow to where it would produce the highest pretax return. The thesis of this Article is that neutrality is ordinarily inapplicable in the field of international taxation.

When considering neutrality in the international arena, the problem that one encounters is that the term “international taxation” is commonly used to describe a number of very different types of tax regimes (what the Article refers to as “intranational taxation,” “supranational taxation,” and “inter-jurisdictional taxation”). Although the literature tends not to distinguish among them, the different types of international tax regimes are conceptually distinct and require radically dissimilar guiding principles. The Article argues that neutrality is an appropriate principle with regard to only one type of international taxation: a hypothetical non-Pigouvian supranational tax. With regard to intranational taxation, neutrality has no role to play, as a rational country will exploit its tax system to promote the welfare of its own constituents without regard to which investments it would have attracted in a no-tax world. With regard to a hypothetical Pigouvian supranational tax and in particular with regard to the much-scrutinized field of inter-jurisdictional taxation, neutrality is irrelevant, as here it is the after-tax return and not the pretax return that is determinative of allocative efficiency. Promoting neutrality would undermine the very goals that the principle of neutrality purports to serve.

The Article concludes by noting that the current discourse with regard to international taxation is fraught with conceptual confusion. First, there is a tendency to rely upon concepts that were developed within the context of domestic taxation without a thorough examination of their applicability to the international arena. Second, there is a tendency to lump together a number of very distinct types of tax regimes under the overbroad category of “international taxation,” and to ignore the fact that due to the fundamental dissimilarities among them, the principles of tax theory relevant to each will also be different.

Keywords: tax, international tax, international taxation, neutrality, efficiency, allocative efficiency, pigou, pigouvian tax, pigouvian taxation

JEL Classification: K34, A19, E62, F60

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, A Critical Reassessment of the Role of Neutrality in International Taxation (July 15, 2019). Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3492524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Yale L Pol&apos;y Rev
, volume 43 Posted: 2006
Hayes Holderness
Taxing Privacy, 21 GEO
J. POVERTY L. & POL'Y , volume 1 , p. 5 - 7 Posted: 2013
Michael A Livingston
Radical Scholars
Conservative Field: Putting Critical Tax Scholarship in Perspective, 76 N.C. L. REV. 1791 Posted: 1998
Suellen M Wolfe
Recovery from Halper: The Pain from Additions to Tax is Not the Sting of Punishment, 25 HOFSTRA L. REV , volume 161 , p. 179 - 80 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
451,566
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies