Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Wars: How to End the Conflict over Taxing Global Digital Commerce

Berkeley Business Law Journal (Forthcoming)

42 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019

Arthur J. Cockfield

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 26, 2019

Abstract

In the last two years, dozens of governments have proposed or introduced unilateral tax measures to tax foreign-based technology companies. The new tax innovations include special withholding taxes, diverted profit taxes, minimum taxes and digital services taxes. The rise of these unilateral measures threatens an international tax ‘war’ among governments that could stifle new business models or even the spread of the global digital economy. This Article reviews how international reform efforts have failed to constrain aggressive international tax planning and how the global digital tax conflict masks a growing dissatisfaction with how to tax value associated with global transactions. A coordinated solution that creates an economic presence test (a Quantitative Economic Presence Permanent Establishment) and modifies how tax revenues are divided between countries (e.g., the Residual Profit Split by Income proposal) is the best way to address these global developments.

Keywords: tax, digital commerce, BEPS, OECD, permanent establishment, profit split

Suggested Citation:

Cockfield, Arthur, Tax Wars: How to End the Conflict over Taxing Global Digital Commerce (November 26, 2019). Berkeley Business Law Journal (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3493940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,282
RANK
74,554
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies