Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The R&D Tax Incentive as a Source of Funding for Early Stage Firms: Evidence From Australian Mining Exploration Entities

43 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2019

Andrew Ferguson

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Sam Sherry

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 27, 2019

Abstract

Prior research documents impediments to raising external equity finance faced by early stage and R&D firms. The capital structure literature predicts that these firms prefer to finance their projects with internal funds, with equity used as a last resort. We examine the 2011 changes to the R&D Tax Incentive (“R&DTI”) in Australia, which allowed small firms in a tax loss position to exchange a portion of their unused losses for a cash refund of up to 45% of their eligible R&D expenditure, potentially providing an alternative funding channel. Using a sample of 322 ASX-listed mining exploration entities (“MEEs”) receiving R&D tax refunds between 2008 and 2015, we find that the number of firms accessing the R&DTI increased significantly after 2011, as did the average refund received. The increase in R&DTI claims are concentrated in firms having previously disclosed a mineral resource or ore reserve. We find that R&D firms are generally less risky than non-R&D firms of comparable size. This is likely due to companies engaged in greenfield exploration (the most high-risk form of exploration) investing less in R&D compared to those conducting R&D around an existing mineral deposit.

Keywords: tax incentives; research and development; extractive industries; pecking order

JEL Classification: G32, H25, N57, O38

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Andrew and Sherry, Sam, The R&D Tax Incentive as a Source of Funding for Early Stage Firms: Evidence From Australian Mining Exploration Entities (November 27, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3494000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3494000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
926
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies