Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness and Earnings Persistence and Its Components

21 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2019

Ederaldo Lima

Fucape Business School

Claudia Alves Perez

FUCAPE Business School

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this research is to analyze if companies with higher tax aggressiveness have different levels of earnings persistence components, specifically: i) book-tax differences and ii) tax profit. The study period was from 2010 to 2016, involving Brazilian companies listed on B3. The most aggressive companies ranked tax-dependent by the Effective Tax Rate metric. The results showed that companies, when segregated by levels of tax aggressiveness, present differentiated earnings persistence in their components. It is noted that, in most tax- aggressive companies, tax profit becomes a determining factor for future book income. This paper contributes to the accounting literature by identifying the impact of taxation on earnings quality, in particular, for earnings persistence, which is a fundamental requirement for greater managerial and tax predictability and greater value direction for companies.

Keywords: Earnings persistence; Tax aggressiveness; Book-tax differences; Effective tax rates

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Lima, Ederaldo and Perez, Claudia Alves and Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Tax Aggressiveness and Earnings Persistence and Its Components (December 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
RANK
393,016
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies