Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks and Corporate Income Taxation: A Review

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 10

47 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2019 Last revised: 1 Feb 2023

Vanessa Gawehn

Paderborn University

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, I review the empirical literature in the intersection of banks and corporate income taxation that emerged over the last two decades. To structure the included studies, I use a stakeholder approach and outline how corporate income taxation plays into the relation of banks and their four main stakeholders: bank regulators, customers, investors and tax authorities. I identify six dimension where taxes are important for banks: debt financing, tax incidence, organizational form choices, profit shifting, financial reporting transparency and customers’ tax avoidance. In addition, the studies in this review show that corporate income taxes lead to distortions between debt and equity financing, between on- and off-balance sheet financing, of prices and of investment allocations. My contribution to the literature is threefold: First, I contribute by providing, to the best of my knowledge, a first comprehensive review on this topic. Second, I deduce policy implications from the studies under review. Third, I point to areas of future research in the intersection of bank regulation and tax legislation.

Keywords: corporate income taxes, banks, stakeholder approach, decision-making process

JEL Classification: G21, H22, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gawehn, Vanessa, Banks and Corporate Income Taxation: A Review (March 11, 2020). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3498843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3498843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
U Albertazzi , L Gambacorta
Bank profitability and taxation
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 34 , issue 11 , p. 2801 - 2810 Posted: 2010
K Andries , J Gallemore , M Jacob
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
A Atkeson , V V Chari , P J Kehoe
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Quarterly Review , volume 23 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 1999
Group of governors and heads of supervision announces higher global minimum capital standards Posted: 2010-03-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
186,369
6 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies