Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theories of Tax Deductions: Income Measurement versus Efficiency

Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting 5: 107–136.

35 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019 Last revised: 21 Aug 2023

Yehonatan Givati

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 9, 2019

Abstract

What is the purpose of tax deductions? A common view among tax law scholars is that tax deductions are required to properly measure income. I present an alternative theory of tax deductions, relying on standard economic efficiency grounds. I develop a model which highlights the fact that economic activities have costs and benefits, but an income tax system taxes only some of those benefits. The efficient deduction rule allows the deduction of a share of the cost equal to the share of the benefit that is taxed. I also show that the deadweight loss due to a departure from the efficient deduction rule increases quadratically with the departure, making larger departures from the rule much more costly than smaller ones. I then review various tax deduction rules in the Internal Revenue Code, analyzing each rule under the two theories of tax deductions, and demonstrating that the efficiency theory is useful both for teaching tax deductions and as a guide to optimal tax policy.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Tax Deductions

Suggested Citation:

Givati, Yehonatan, Theories of Tax Deductions: Income Measurement versus Efficiency (December 9, 2019). Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting 5: 107–136., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
William D Andrews
Personal Deductions in an Ideal Income Tax
Harvard Law Review , volume 86 , p. 309 - 385 Posted: 1972
Crossref
William D Andrews
Basic Federal Income Taxation (Aspen Publishers Posted: 1999
Anthony B Atkinson , Joseph E Stiglitz
The Structure of Indirect Taxation and Economic E¢ ciency
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 97 - 119 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Pio Baake , Rainald Borck , Andreas Lö-Er
Complexity and progressivity in income tax design: Deductions for work-related expenses
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 299 - 312 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,955
RANK
183,540
5 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies