Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Tax Amnesty Programme on Tax Compliance in Nigeria: The Moderating Role of Political Trust

Okoye, F. (2019). The influence of tax amnesty programme on tax compliance in Nigeria: The moderating role of political trust. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 11(7).

10 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2020

Francis Okoye

Pan-Atlantic University - Lagos Business School

Date Written: July 16, 2019

Abstract

The paper examined the influence of tax amnesty programme on tax compliance in Nigeria moderating the effect of political trust. The survey research design was employed to understand the taxpayer's perception of the Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS). We collected the data through the administration of questionnaires to taxpayers across the most commercial states in Nigeria. The data obtained were analysed using the frequency table, the Cronbach alpha test, and the binary logistic regression technique. The survey showed that the compliance rate was about 22%. The study showed that the primary driver of tax compliance in Nigeria is unannounced ad hoc tax audit; this implies that tax compliance will increase when taxpayers are aware there is an unannounced ad hoc tax audit. It is evident from this study that the low tax compliance was as a result of the moderating effect of political trust of the taxpayers as indicated by the amnesty*trust and trust showed a negative relationship with tax compliance in Nigeria. Based on the empirical analysis, the paper concludes that the Tax Amnesty Programme VAIDS has a significant influence on tax compliance in Nigeria. The paper recommended that the government should build and strengthen the institutions, which give a sense of accountability and perception of good governance to the taxpayers, which will encourage voluntary tax compliance in the long run.



Keywords: Tax amnesty, tax compliance, political trust, Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS)

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Francis, The Influence of Tax Amnesty Programme on Tax Compliance in Nigeria: The Moderating Role of Political Trust (July 16, 2019). Okoye, F. (2019). The influence of tax amnesty programme on tax compliance in Nigeria: The moderating role of political trust. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 11(7). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Ali , O Fjestald , I Sjursen
To pay or not to pay? Citizens" attitudes toward taxation in Kenya
World Development , volume 64 , p. 828 - 842 Posted: 2014
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez
Institutions, paradigms, and tax evasion in developing and transition countries
Public finance in developing and transitional countries , p. 146 - 178 Posted: 2003
J Alm , M Mckee
Audit certainty, audit productivity, and taxpayer compliance
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 801 - 816 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
660
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,944
RANK
91,345
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies