Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merging to Dodge Taxes? Unexpected Consequences of VAT Adoption in India

67 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2020 Last revised: 24 Apr 2020

Divya Singh

Columbia University

Date Written: December 17, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates whether tax evasion creates incentives among firms to reorganize their production under Value-added Tax (VAT). VAT is world’s most popular consumption tax and is considered revenue efficient since cross-reporting of firm-to-firm transactions facilitates self- enforcement. However, the ability to evade tax on consumer transactions creates incentives for the last two firms in the production chain to integrate vertically. In this paper, I test this hypothesis by using a quasi-experiment in India where the sales tax was replaced with VAT in a staggered manner between 2003 and 2008, changing tax evasion opportunities along the production chain. A differences- in-differences analysis reveals that after the reform, treated firms sourced more “upstream” products and had a larger number of vertical mergers, indicating greater vertical integration under VAT. In addition, the effect is largest for firms that are closest to final demand indicating that tax-evasion is one of the channels. Overall, the results suggest that VAT is no longer production efficient in settings of low compliance.

Keywords: Tax evasion, Vertical integration, Upstreamness, Value added taxes

JEL Classification: H20, H30, D22, D23

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Divya, Merging to Dodge Taxes? Unexpected Consequences of VAT Adoption in India (December 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3505534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3505534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D Acemoglu , R Griffith , P Aghion , F Zilibotti
Vertical integration and technology: Theory and evidence
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 989 - 1033 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P Aghion , R Griffith , P Howitt
Vertical integration and competition
The American Economic Review , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 97 - 102 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L Alfaro , P Conconi , H Fadinger , A F Newman
Do prices determine vertical integration?
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 83 , issue 3 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Allcott , A Collard-Wexler , S D Connell
How do electricity shortages affect industry? evidence from india
American Economic Review , volume 106 , issue 3 , p. 587 - 624 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,504
RANK
342,603
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies