Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Creation: A Constant Principle in a Changing World of International Taxation

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 1107-1134

28 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Jinyan Li

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Jin Bao

York University, Osgoode Hall Law School, Students

Huaning (Christina) Li

York University, Osgoode Hall Law School, Students

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

The authors consider the new nomenclature of value creation in terms of its meaning, theoretical basis, and importance in the context of the international taxation of business profits. The authors' central claim is that the principle of value creation is a profound elaboration of the doctrine of economic allegiance, which is the theoretical basis for the current international tax system; and that international tax norms, such as the arm's-length principle, are meant to give effect to the doctrine of economic allegiance (and now to the principle of value creation). As demonstrated by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development/Group of Twenty base erosion and profit shifting project, there is apparently global consensus that the value-creation principle should guide the development of new rules — not only the rules to protect countries' existing tax bases (for example, anti-avoidance rules) but also the rules to allocate new taxation rights in respect of income derived in a digital and intangible economy. The authors evaluate the most recent tax-reform proposals in the light of the value-creation principle, and they recommend a global profit-split rule as a way of accurately reflecting value creation.

Keywords: BEPS, digital economy, transfer pricing, arm's-length principle, profit-split, global value chains

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinyan and Bao, Jin and Li, Huaning (Christina), Value Creation: A Constant Principle in a Changing World of International Taxation (December 27, 2019). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 1107-1134, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
enterprises in different countries on the basis of a predetermined formula
Ibid
Crossref
Ibid
See United Nations
Practical Manual on Transfer Pricing for Developing Countries Posted: 2017-09-11
See Michael Kobestky
The Transfer-Pricing Profit-Split Method After BEPS: Back to the Future
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 67 , issue 4 , p. 1077 - 1105 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Olivier Péjout
Back to the future: looking for a European tax system
37 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2021 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
RANK
172,550
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies