Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Adoption of IFRS Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 947-979

34 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2020

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Akinloye Akindayomi

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American)

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

This article investigates whether the adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) affected corporate tax avoidance in Canada. Based on a 3,200 firm-year data set of 400 publicly listed Canadian firms that adopted IFRS and 400 listed US firms, matched one-to-one using propensity score matching, the authors' regression results show that IFRS adoption was followed by a decrease in corporate tax avoidance in Canada, at least in the short run. The study finds a significant increase in cash tax paid in the post-adoption period by Canadian firms that adopted IFRS compared to US firms that used US generally accepted accounting principles. Additional regression results based on a small control sample of Canadian firms that did not adopt IFRS present collaborative evidence. The authors further test specific taxpayer attributes and accounting issues identified in Canada Revenue Agency internal memorandums — in particular, concerns that the adoption of IFRS may increase the risk of tax avoidance. While the authors find evidence that the IFRS firms that engaged in accrual management paid more taxes in the post-adoption period, their analysis provides no evidence of statistically significant relationships between IFRS adoption and tax avoidance associated with revenue management, ownership of foreign operations, industry membership, profitability, or impairment losses or writeoffs. Taken together, the authors' findings present preliminary but strong empirical evidence that IFRS adoption is associated with a decrease in corporate tax avoidance, at least in the short run.

Keywords: IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards, tax avoidance, corporate taxes, Canada Revenue Agency

Suggested Citation:

Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi and Akindayomi, Akinloye and Warsame, Hussein A., Did the Adoption of IFRS Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance? (December 27, 2019). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 947-979, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
. . Nol
Crossref
. . Capex
. . Inventory
Crossref
. . Foreign
Load more
2 Citations
Ruiyuan Chen , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami , He Wang , Yang Yang
Corporate Governance and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from U.S. Cross-listing
The Accounting Review · 50 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 10 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 1,209
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ruiyuan Chen , Sadok El Ghoul , Omrane Guedhami , Robert C. Nash , Yang Yang , Yang Yang
Do as I Say, Not as I Do: Tax Avoidance by State-Owned Firms
59 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 239
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
285,369
2 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies