Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing Tax Information in the 21st Century: Big Data Flows and Taxpayers as Data Subjects

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 1179-1199

22 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2020

Arthur J. Cockfield

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 27, 2019

Abstract

In the last 10 years, governments have initiated several reforms to automatically exchange bulk taxpayer information with other governments (mainly via the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the common reporting standard, and country-by-country reporting). This enhanced sharing of tax information has been encouraged both by technological change, including digitization, big data, and data analytics; and by political trends, including governments' efforts to reduce offshore tax evasion and aggressive international tax avoidance. In some cases, however, legal protections for taxpayer privacy and other interests are insufficiently robust for this emerging international sharing framework. Conceptually, taxpayers should be seen as "data subjects" whose rights are proactively protected by data protection laws and policies, including fair information practices. An optimal regime, which would balance the interests of taxpayers against those of tax authorities, should include a multilateral taxpayer bill of rights, a cross-border withholding tax that could be imposed in lieu of information exchange, and a global financial registry that would allow governments to identify the beneficial owners of business and legal entities.

Keywords: Tax evasion, tax avoidance, TIEA

Suggested Citation:

Cockfield, Arthur, Sharing Tax Information in the 21st Century: Big Data Flows and Taxpayers as Data Subjects (December 27, 2019). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2019, Vol. 67, No. 4, p. 1179-1199, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
Globalization, Tax Competition, and the Fiscal Crisis of the Welfare State
Harvard Law Review , volume 113 , issue 7 , p. 1667 - 69 Posted: 2000
Crossref
on Taxation of Savings Income in the Form of Interest Payments Posted: 2003-06
Arthur J Cockfield
Transforming the Internet into a Taxable Forum: A Case Study in E-Commerce Taxation
Minnesota Law Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1235 - 63 Posted: 2001
Gabriel Zucman
Taxing Across Borders: Tracking Personal Wealth and Corporate Profits
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 121 - 169 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,464
RANK
304,992
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies