Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Tax Avoidance Correctly: The Importance of Including Loss Years

The Practical Tax Lawyer, Spring 2020

6 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2020 Last revised: 1 Nov 2023

Noel Brock

Eastern Michigan Univeristy

Roy Clemons

New Mexico State University

Adam Nowak

West Virginia University

Date Written: December 29, 2019

Abstract

Dyreng et al. (2017) find that the effective tax rates for both foreign and domestic corporations have steadily declined over the past quarter century. However, contrary to conventional wisdom, the authors also find that U.S. multinational corporations do not have a tax-based cost advantage relative to their domestic counterparts. We investigate this unexpected finding by reexamining corporate income taxes over the past quarter century employing an alternative tax avoidance measure developed by Henry and Sansing (2018). The authors measure addresses both sample selection bias and measurement error that exists when using income as the denominator when calculating effective tax rates. Using the Henry and Sansing (2018) measure of tax avoidance, we find that U.S. multinational corporations do have a tax-based cost advantage relative to their domestic counterparts. Thus, sample selection bias is a plausible explanation for the unexpected tax-based cost advantage of US domestic firms reported in prior research.

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Noel and Clemons, Roy and Nowak, Adam, Estimating Tax Avoidance Correctly: The Importance of Including Loss Years (December 29, 2019). The Practical Tax Lawyer, Spring 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3511072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Dyreng
Changes in Corporate Effective Tax Rates Over the Past 25 Years
127 J. of Fin. Econ , volume 441 Posted: 2017
An MNC is a U.S. corporation with U.S. operations that also has subsidiaries and/or operations outside the
Stanley S Surrey
Pathways to Tax Reform: The Concept of Tax Expenditures Posted: 1973
Sansing Henry
Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
901
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies