Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transportation Infrastructure Development and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From a Quasi-Natural Experiment

Posted: 3 Feb 2020 Last revised: 11 Feb 2021

Lyu Fan

Deakin University

Caiyue Ouyang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Jiacai Xiong

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Jun Yao

Deakin University

Date Written: February 11, 2021

Abstract

Analyzing the launch of high-speed rail (HSR) services in China as a quasi-natural experiment, we identify a positive externality stemming from the development of transportation infrastructure: the reduction in firms’ value-destroying tax avoidance. Specifically, we find that after the opening of HSR lines to the cities where firms are located, information asymmetry subsides and firms undertake less tax avoidance, which leads to enhanced firm value. In another result consistent with expectations, we document that the impact of the introduction of HSR lines on tax avoidance is concentrated in firms in which insiders exhibit a high propensity to extract rents through aggressive tax strategies. Moreover, we find that the importance of the opening of HSR lines to firms’ tax avoidance is mediated by income shifting, which is the primary technique through which insiders in China elicit private benefits and reduce taxes. Additionally, we also identify the increase in the intensity of site visits that are conducted by institutional investors and financial analysts as an important force that causes the reduction of tax avoidance after the launch of HSR lines. Our results imply that improving transportation infrastructure reduces the cost of external monitoring, which constrains insiders from siphoning private benefits under the guise of tax avoidance that benefits all shareholders as the residual claimants.

Keywords: high-speed railway, geographic proximity, tax avoidance; agency problem

JEL Classification: G34, H26, H54, O18

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Lyu and Ouyang, Caiyue and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Xiong, Jiacai and Yao, Jun Alex, Transportation Infrastructure Development and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From a Quasi-Natural Experiment (February 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3516977
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
963
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Transportation, Economy & Society eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies