Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Financial Reporting on Innovation: Evidence from Tax Law and Accounting Standards

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2018-0582

60 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2020 Last revised: 8 Feb 2021

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: October 15, 2020

Abstract

This study examines whether financial accounting standards moderate the effectiveness of tax policy. Specifically, we examine whether myopic managers’ focus on short-term financial reporting reduces the effectiveness of tax subsidies that incentivize innovation. We employ a novel setting, the issuance of Financial Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), which changed the financial reporting for some important, yet uncertain, tax incentives to innovate. For firms most affected by the standard change, we find evidence of reduced investment in innovation, reduced sensitivity of investment to tax incentives, and reduced future innovative output. Consistent with earnings myopia, we find the effect is more pronounced in firms with higher levels of transient institutional ownership and newly vesting equity compensation. These results indicate financial reporting myopia has real effects on innovation and can reduce tax policy effectiveness. The results further suggest that tax policymakers should consider both financial reporting and cash flow incentives in designing policy.


Keywords: Innovation, Accounting Recognition, FIN 48

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Braden and Williams, Brian, Real Effects of Financial Reporting on Innovation: Evidence from Tax Law and Accounting Standards (October 15, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2018-0582 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
761
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,564
RANK
75,983
16 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies