Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Emerging Economies Firms to Invest in Tax Havens?

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 2019

20 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2020

Yosra Makni-Fourati

University of Sfax

Rafika Madhi

University of Sfax

Dr. Ahmad Alqatan

Portsmouth Business school

Date Written: December 30, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to examine the incentives of multinational enterprises (MNEs) for setting up tax -haven subsidiaries. Based on the firm-specific advantage–country-specific advantage (FSA–CSA) framework, we have conducted our research hypotheses. Using a sample of 165 MNEs from six emerging countries spanning the years 2014-2016, we document that firms with greater investments in intangible assets have a higher likelihood of owning subsidiaries in tax havens. Concerning the home-country specific advantages, we provide evidence that firms are more likely to set up tax-haven subsidiaries when their home country has lower required book- tax conformity and a worldwide-tax system. With respect to the host-country advantages, we show that the lowest corporate-tax rate usually offered by tax havens constitutes a motivation for foreign MNEs to establish tax-haven subsidiaries. In summary, our findings indicate that firm's home-country tax system characteristics (a worldwide tax system, book-tax conformity) are seen as the most critical determinants for setting up tax- haven subsidiaries.

Keywords: FSA/CSA framework, Tax havens, Tax systems, Book-Tax conformity

Suggested Citation:

Makni-Fourati, Yosra and Madhi, Rafika and Alqatan, Ahmad, What Drives Emerging Economies Firms to Invest in Tax Havens? (December 30, 2019). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3520805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Al Baaj , Q M A Marshedi , A A S Al-Laban , D A A
The impact of electronic taxation on reducing tax evasion methods of iraqi companies listed in the Iraqi Stock Exchange
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2018
Al Karaawy , N A A
The impact of making tax digital application on the accounting costs
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , issue 3 Posted: 2018
Al Karaawy , N A A Baaj , Q M A
Taxation of international business organizations
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2018
T Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,063
RANK
560,422
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies