Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marijuana Taxation and Imperfect Competition

53 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2020

Chris Mace

University of Texas at Dallas, Naveen Jindal School of Management, Department of Finance

Elena Patel

Brookings Institution - Economic Studies Program

Nathan Seegert

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 18, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the tax implications for the new recreational marijuana industry in the United States, which reached a size of \$9 billion in 2017. We exploit administrative data from Washington state to evaluate market conduct, and we estimate the elasticity of supply to be 1.46. In addition, we conduct a survey of marijuana producers and retailers in Colorado, Oregon, and Washington, calculating the elasticity of demand to be -1.84. We use these estimates to determine how much of the tax burden is borne by consumers. The answer depends on market conduct. In perfectly competitive markets, producers pay slightly more of the tax than consumers, but in a monopoly market consumers would pay most of the tax. Additionally, we calculate that the change in deadweight loss due to the tax is $63 million per year or 48% of total marijuana tax revenues in 2015. This calculation, however, depends critically on estimates of consumption externalities.

Keywords: Marijuana, State Taxation, Deadweight Loss

JEL Classification: H21, L13

Suggested Citation:

Mace, Chris and Patel, Elena and Seegert, Nathan, Marijuana Taxation and Imperfect Competition (January 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Simon P Anderson , Andre De Palma , Brent Kreider
Tax incidence in differentiated product oligopoly
Journal of Public Economics , volume 81 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 192 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach , James R Hines
Taxation and economic efficiency
Handbook of Public Economics , volume 3 , p. 1347 - 1421 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Marcus A Bachhuber , Brendan Saloner , O Chinazo , Colleen L Cunningham , Barry
Medical cannabis laws and opioid analgesic overdose mortality in the United States
JAMA Internal Medicine , volume 174 , issue 10 , p. 1668 - 1673 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Elizabeth Berger , Nathan Seegert
Half Banked: The Real Effects of Financial Exclusion on Firms Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,316
RANK
257,421
6 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies