Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Savvy Executives

Posted: 15 Feb 2020

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Yijun Li

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE); Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

John R. Robinson

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 30, 2019

Abstract

We investigate why firms include individuals with significant professional tax experience on their senior management team and the consequences associated with the presence of these tax-savvy senior executives. We find that past performance, network connections, geographic location, and tax rate level relative to industry peers are all significant determinants in having a tax-savvy executive on the senior management team. Using propensity score matching, we find that effective tax rates decrease substantially after a tax-savvy executive is added to senior management and revert following the departure of a tax-savvy executive from senior management. We connect the changes in effective tax rates to changes in the usage of foreign subsidiaries in low tax jurisdictions.

Keywords: corporate taxes, employment history, effective tax rates, professional experience

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, H25, M12

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Li, Yijun and Robinson, John R., Tax Savvy Executives (October 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3522815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3522815
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies