Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxes and High-Quality Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Tax Reform

39 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2020

Ana Venâncio

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics and Management,Universidade de Lisboa

Victor Barros

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics and Management,Universidade de Lisboa

Clara C. Raposo

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics & Management

Date Written: January 20, 2020

Abstract

We examine the impact of corporate taxation on entrepreneurship, using a quasi-natural experiment, which substantially reduced the corporate tax rate for start-ups located in inland municipalities in Portugal. Using a difference-in-differences approach and IV regression, we find that the tax reform increased firm entry by approximately 0.41% and birth job creation by 0.24% monthly, corresponding to an increase of 29,150 new firms, and 223,500 news jobs over a period of three years. We find that the entrepreneurs who took advantage of this tax reform are mostly male, relatively older and well-educated individuals. Their start-ups are relatively larger (up to 10 employees) and are on average more productive and more likely to survive their first three years. These findings suggest that corporate taxation is an imperative constraint for entrepreneurship, particularly for high-quality entrepreneurs. High-quality entrepreneurs can more easily overcome the hurdles of tax legislation and they have the required knowledge to tackle the opportunity created by a tax reform.

Keywords: Firm entry, Job creation, Tax policy, Corporate taxes, High-quality entrepreneurship

JEL Classification: H24. H26, J24, L26, M13, H25

Suggested Citation:

Venâncio, Ana and Barros, Victor and Raposo, Clara C., Corporate Taxes and High-Quality Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Tax Reform (January 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3523371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3523371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Blau
A time-series analysis of self-employment in the United States
Journal of Political Economy , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 445 - 467 Posted: 1987
Crossref
J Block
Corporate income taxes and entrepreneurship Posted: 2016
Crossref
L Branstetter , F Lima , L J Taylor , A Venâncio
Do Entry Regulations Deter Entrepreneurship and Job Creation? Evidence from Recent Reforms in Portugal
The Economic Journal , volume 124 , issue 577 , p. 805 - 832 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Braunerhjelm , J E Eklund
Taxes, tax administrative burdens and new firm formation
Kyklos , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
484,258
3 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies