Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks’ tax disclosure, financial secrecy, and tax haven heterogeneity

WU International Research Paper Series No. 2020-01

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 166

Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (JIAAT)

50 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2020 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Raffael Speitmann

Joint Research Centre of the European Commission

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: October 31, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of mandatory public country-by-country reporting (CbCR) on European banks' engagement in tax and regulatory havens characterized by financial secrecy. Employing a difference-in-differences approach, we find that following the introduction of CbCR, European banks reduced their number of tax haven subsidiaries by approximately one-third compared to insurers, which were exempt from the disclosure requirement. Further analysis reveals that this decline is primarily driven by withdrawals from economically insignificant "dot tax havens" and from countries that serve as both tax and regulatory havens. Additionally, we observe that banks with low exposure to reputational risk prior to the reform are more likely to reduce their presence in bank havens. These results reveal that public CbCR prompts withdrawals from low-tax locations but only under specific conditions. Public CbCR curtails tax haven presence when both financial secrecy and reputational concerns are at play, but on its own may not curb tax haven use. These insights contribute to ongoing tax policy debates by highlighting the limitations and conditional effectiveness of transparency-driven regulations.  

Keywords: bank haven, financial secrecy, real effects, reputational risk, tax haven, tax disclosure

JEL Classification: F23, G18, G21, G22, H20, H25, H32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Speitmann, Raffael and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Banks’ tax disclosure, financial secrecy, and tax haven heterogeneity (October 31, 2024). WU International Research Paper Series No. 2020-01, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 166, Forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (JIAAT), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3523909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3523909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
L Ahrens , L Hakelberg , T Rixen
A victim of regulatory arbitrage? Automatic exchange of information and the use of golden visas and corporate shells
Regulation and Governance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 653 - 672 Posted: 2022
G Aliprandi , M Barake , P E Chouc
Have European banks left tax havens? Evidence from country-by-country data. EU Tax Observatory Posted: 2021-06-05
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , G Zucman
Who owns the wealth in tax havens? Macro evidence and implications for global inequality
Journal of Public Economics , volume 162 , p. 89 - 100 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,403
RANK
100,824
12 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies