Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Complexity in Australia – A Survey-Based Comparison to the OECD Average

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 14

29 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2020 Last revised: 4 Aug 2021

Thomas Hoppe

Paderborn University

Date Written: January 27, 2020

Abstract

This article comprehensively reviews Australia’s corporate income tax complexity as faced by multinational corporations (MNCs) and compares it to the average of the remaining OECD countries. Building on unique survey data, I find that the Australian tax code is considerably more complex than the OECD average, which is mainly due to overly complex anti-avoidance legislation, such as regulations on transfer pricing, general anti-avoidance or controlled foreign corporations (CFC). In contrast, Australia’s tax framework, which covers processes and features such as tax law enactment or tax audits, is close to the OECD average. A more granular analysis yields further interesting insights. For example, excessive details in the tax code and the time between the announcement of a tax law change and its enactment turn out to be serious issues in Australia relative to the remaining OECD countries.

Keywords: Tax Complexity, Corporate Income Tax System, Survey, Australia, OECD Countries

JEL Classification: H20, H25, C83, O57

Suggested Citation:

Hoppe, Thomas, Tax Complexity in Australia – A Survey-Based Comparison to the OECD Average (January 27, 2020). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3526193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
According to the Explanatory Memoranda of the Tax Laws Amendment (Cross-Border Transfer Pricing) Bill (No. 1) 2012 and the Tax Laws Amendment (Countering Tax Avoidance and Multinational Profit Shifting) Bill 2013, the share was already approximately 50% Posted: 2009
Oecd See
Posted: 1995
See
Posted: 2018
Crossref
See Tax Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,306
RANK
249,957
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies