Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Tax Complexity and Foreign Direct Investments: Evidence Across Countries

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-03

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 13

60 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2020 Last revised: 30 Apr 2021

Thomas Hoppe

Paderborn University

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Susann Sturm

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Date Written: January 27, 2020

Abstract

This paper analyzes the association between tax complexity and foreign direct investments (FDI) based on the newly developed Tax Complexity Index (TCI) and its components. For a sample of 15,607 new foreign subsidiaries, we find no association between total tax complexity, as proxied by the TCI, and the location probability. When we decompose the TCI into tax code complexity and tax framework complexity, we find opposing associations. Tax code complexity is positively related to the location probability, while tax framework complexity is negatively related to it. These associations are, for example, driven by the complexity of transfer pricing and loss offset regulations in the tax code and the dimensions guidance, audits, as well as filing and payments, in the tax framework. In additional analyses, we find that the associations are sensitive to certain characteristics, such as country-specific and firm-specific characteristics. For example, the positive tax code association diminishes when tax rates are high. Overall, we are the first to provide empirical evidence on potential cost-benefit tradeoffs of tax complexity for FDI and thereby enhance prior literature, which has primarily focused on the costs of tax complexity.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Tax Complexity, Foreign Direct Investments, Location Choice, Multinational Corporations

JEL Classification: C21, F23, H25, O50

Suggested Citation:

Hoppe, Thomas and Schanz, Deborah and Sturm, Susann and Sureth-Sloane, Caren and Voget, Johannes, The Relation between Tax Complexity and Foreign Direct Investments: Evidence Across Countries (January 27, 2020). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-03, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3526177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Dennis A Ahlburg
The Impact of Population Growth on Well-being in Developing Countries , p. 219 - 285 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Salvador Barrios , Harry Huizinga , Luc Laeven , Gaëtan Nicodème
International Taxation and Multinational Firm Location Decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Benjamin H. Barton
Judges, Lawyers, and a Predictive Theory of Legal Complexity
University of Tennessee Legal Studies Research Paper No. 31 Pages: 35 Posted: 25 May 2008 Last revised: 21 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jonathan A Batten , Xuan Vinh Vo
An Analysis of the Relationship Between Foreign Direct Investment and Economic Growth
Applied Economics , issue 13 , p. 1621 - 1641 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,524
RANK
104,970
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies