Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Provided Tax Services and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From Spain

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020

Josep Garcia-Blandon

IQS School of Management (Universitat Ramon Llull)

Josep M. Argilés‐Bosch

University of Barcelona

Diego Ravenda

Toulouse University, Toulouse Business School

David Castillo-Merino

Ramon Llull University - IQS School of Management; IQS School of Management - Universitat Ramon Llull; Ramon Llull University

Date Written: January 7, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between auditor-provided tax services (APTS) and tax avoidance strategies of their clients in the Spanish market. As a result of a recently enacted EU legislation, APTS is seriously restricted within the EU. The evidence available so far for the US provides consistent support for a positive relationship between APTS and tax avoidance. However, given the importance of country-specific institutional issues, such as litigation risk, to understand the relationship between auditors and clients, the possibility of generalizing the US evidence to other countries is limited. Supporting this view, our results indicate that the positive relationship between APTS and tax avoidance observed in the US does not hold in the Spanish market. In fact, the univariate analysis shows that firms which buy tax services from their auditors present significantly higher mean and median effective tax rates. Subsequently, in the multivariate analysis, we do not observe any significant relationship between APTS and tax avoidance. This result seems robust, as it holds independently of the proxy utilized for measuring tax avoidance, as well as across an array of sensitivity checks. This study has potentially interesting implications at both theoretical and practical levels.

Keywords: auditors providing tax services, tax avoidance, effective tax rate, litigation risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Blandon, Josep and Argiles-Bosch, Josep M. and Ravenda, Diego and Castillo-Merino, David, Auditor-Provided Tax Services and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From Spain (January 7, 2020). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3526760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D G Allen , K Mcdermott
Accounting for success: A history of Price Waterhouse in America 1890-1990 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C Armstrong , J Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Karthik Balakrishnan , Jennifer Blouin , Wayne R. Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
Pages: 67 Posted: 27 Mar 2011 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Bedard
Discussion of "Audit partner specialization and audit fees: Some evidence from Sweden
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 341 - 348 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
528,080
2 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies