Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling Intrinsic and Extrinsic Tax Compliance

20 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2020

Fernando Garcia Alvarado

Université Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne; Ca Foscari University of Venice

Paolo Pellizzari

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Dipartimento di Economia

Date Written: January 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper attempts to fill the gap between economic and behavioral literature on tax evasion.

We propose a micro-founded model whose results are consistent with the ‘Slippery Slope’ Framework and with the Expected Utility Theory. Individual taxpayers face the problem of deciding the fraction of income they wish to disclose to the government, based on their trust and perceived power of authorities. Trust is modeled as the voluntary compliance originated by the umbrella-term tax morale and power is shaped by the perceived enforcement, mainly motivated by individual risk-aversion. Furthermore, we made use of Agent-Based simulations to replicate the ‘slippery slope’ conditions which allowed us to test the effects of different parameters on tax evasion. Compliance is primarily enhanced by tax morale and risk aversion, while it is secondarily motivated by higher audit probabilities and penalty fees. Tax rates, however, play a negative effect on tax compliance, as agents are less willing to pay taxes whenever facing larger obligations. Additionally, we study taxpayer behavior when the audit rate is zero and when agents are inclined to make charitable donations. Above all, we derive the conditions under which individuals would fully-evade, partially evade, fully-comply or even over-comply as charitable giving in the absence of audits.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Power, Trust, Simulations

JEL Classification: H26, H31, C63, A12

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Alvarado, Fernando and Garcia Alvarado, Fernando and Pellizzari, Paolo, Modeling Intrinsic and Extrinsic Tax Compliance (January 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3527760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3527760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
C Adams , P Webley
Small business owners' attitudes on vat compliance in the uk
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 22 , p. 195 - 216 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , K M Bloomquist , M Mckee
When you know your neighbour pays taxes: Information, peer effects, and tax compliance
Working Paper Series , issue 6775 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Estimating the determinants of taxpayer compliance with experimental data
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 121 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
556,623
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies