Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Worldwide Network of Tax Evasion: Evidence from the Panama Papers

38 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2020

Fernando Garcia Alvarado

Université Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne; Ca Foscari University of Venice

Antoine Mandel

Université Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne; Climate Finance Alpha

Date Written: November 29, 2019

Abstract

This paper builds on recent insights from network theory and on the rich dataset made available by the Panama Papers in order to investigate the micro-economic dynamics of tax-evasion. We model offshore financial entities documented in the Panama Papers as links between jurisdictions in the global network of tax evasion. A quantitative analysis shows that the resulting network, far from being a random collection of bilateral links, has key features of complex networks such as a core-periphery structure and a fat-tail degree distribution. We argue that these structural features imply that policy must adopt a systemic perspective on the matter. We offer three sets of insights from this perspective. First, we identify through centrality measures tax havens that ought to be priority policy targets. Second, we show that efficient tax treaties must contain exchange information clauses and link tax-havens to non-haven jurisdictions. Third, we show that the optimal deterrence strategies for a social-planner facing a strategic tax-evader in a Stackelberg competition can be characterized using the notion of Bonacich centrality.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Socio-economic Networks, Game Theory

JEL Classification: H26, H87, D85, C54

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Alvarado, Fernando and Garcia Alvarado, Fernando and Mandel, Antoine, The Worldwide Network of Tax Evasion: Evidence from the Panama Papers (November 29, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3527765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3527765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Alvarez
Understanding the risks of shell shelf companies Posted: 2017
&amp; Alvarez , Marsal
Crossref
M Aouchiche , F K Bell , D Cvetkovi´ccvetkovi´c , P Hansen , P Rowlinson , S K Simi´csimi´c , D Stevanovi´cstevanovi´c
Variable neighborhood search for extremal graphs. 16. some conjectures related to the largest eigenvalue of a graph
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 191 , issue 3 , p. 661 - 676 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Ballester , A Calvó-Armengol , Y Zenou
Who's who in networks. wanted: The key player
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 5 , p. 1403 - 1417 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,317
RANK
386,928
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies