Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crime Treasure Islands: Tax Havens, Tax Evasion and Money Laundering

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020)

12 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2020

Michele Sabatino

Kore University of Enna

Date Written: February 3, 2020

Abstract

Globalization has encouraged the introduction of economic crime at the international level. Organized crime easily entered in legitimate activities through money laundering operations. In this context "tax havens" play an essential role in the globalization of financial crime. In these places, in fact, crime launders money coming from illegal activities and reinvests it in new activities. This paper intends to examine in depth the "chain" of illegal money with reference to "tax havens," starting from their definition, and detecting the existing network between tax evasion, money laundering and reinvestment in lawful activities.

Keywords: Tax Haven, Tax Evasion, Laundering, Off-shore company

Suggested Citation:

Sabatino, Michele, Crime Treasure Islands: Tax Havens, Tax Evasion and Money Laundering (February 3, 2020). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3530218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Guerino Ardizzi , Carmelo Petraglia , Massimiliano Piacenza , Gilberto Turati
Measuring the Underground Economy with the Currency Demand Approach: A Reinterpretation of the Methodology, with an Application to Italy
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 864 Pages: 34 Posted: 15 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A. -Rey Becchi , G M
The criminal economy Posted: 1994
G Caramognoli
Main Outlines of law enforcement action
Black list and tax havens Posted: 2011
M Carbone , M Bosco , L Petese
Tax havens geography, IPSOA Manuali Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Nadia Accoto , Stefano Federico , Giacomo Oddo
Trade in Services Related to Intangibles and the Profit Shifting Hypothesis
Bank of Italy Temi di Discussione (Working Paper) No. 1414 · 38 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
749
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,603
RANK
77,623
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies