Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Bias and Tax Compliance: Experimental Evidence

IZA Discussion Paper No. 12938

30 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Miloš Fišar

Masaryk University

Tommaso Reggiani

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School - Economics Section; Masaryk University

Fabio Sabatini

Sapienza University of Rome

Jiří Špalek

Masaryk University

Abstract

We study the impact of media bias on tax compliance. Through a framed laboratory experiment, we assess how the exposure to biased news about government action affects compliance in a repeated taxation game. Subjects treated with positive news are significantly more compliant than the control group. The exposure to negative news, instead, does not prompt any significant reaction in respect to the neutral condition, suggesting that participants perceive the media negativity bias in the selection and tonality of news as the norm rather than the exception. Overall, our results suggest that biased news act as a constant source of psychological priming and play a vital role in taxpayers' compliance decisions.

Keywords: tax compliance, media bias, taxation game, laboratory experiment

JEL Classification: C91, D70, H26, H31

Suggested Citation:

Fišar, Miloš and Reggiani, Tommaso and Sabatini, Fabio and Špalek, Jiří, Media Bias and Tax Compliance: Experimental Evidence. IZA Discussion Paper No. 12938, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J Abeler , A Falk , L Goette , D Human
Reference points and eort provision
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
C Agridas
What drives media bias? new evidence from recent newspaper closures
Journal of Media Economics , volume 28 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
A Alesina , G M Angeletos
Fairness and redistribution
American Economic Review , volume 95 , issue 4 Posted: 2005
M G Allingham , A Sandmmo
Income and tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
359,301
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies