Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Determines Where Opportunity Knocks? Political Affiliation in the Selection of Opportunity Zones

63 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2020 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Mary Margaret Frank

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

We examine the role of political affiliation during the selection of Opportunity Zones, a place-based tax incentive enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. We find governors are on average 7.6% more likely to select a census tract as an Opportunity Zone when the tract’s state representative is a member of the governor’s political party. This effect is incremental to local demographic factors that increased the likelihood of selection, such as lower income levels and preceding improvements in local conditions. Selection of politically affiliated tracts is greatest in Republican-governed states, where the effect increases to 13.2%. Furthermore, we find two procedures used by some governors when selecting Opportunity Zones – proportional allocation across a state and delegation of initial nominations to local authorities – offset the role of political affiliation. These results enhance our understanding of the selection of place-based economic incentives, providing evidence relevant for concurrent and future academic literature and legislative proposals.

Keywords: Place-based tax incentives, Opportunity Zones, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H21, O18, O21, R38

Suggested Citation:

Frank, Mary Margaret and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Lester, Rebecca, What Determines Where Opportunity Knocks? Political Affiliation in the Selection of Opportunity Zones (January 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3534451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3534451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
J Alm , T Dronyk-Trosper , S Larkin
the land of OZ: designating opportunity zones , volume 188 , p. 503 - 523 Posted: 2021
S Ansolabehere , J M Snyder
Party Control of State Government and the Distribution of Public Expenditures
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 108 , issue 4 , p. 547 - 569 Posted: 2006
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
Political Connections and Government-Awarded Economic Incentives: US State-level Evidence Posted: 2019
A Arefeva , M Davis , A Ghent
Who Benefits from Opportunity Zones? Arizona Commerce Authority
Opportunity Funds Guidance Update Webinar Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,884
RANK
138,390
19 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies