Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hong Kong and Tax Treaty Disputes

Eduardo Baistrocchi, ed, A Global Analysis of Tax Treaty Disputes, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2017

31 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020 Last revised: 2 Dec 2020

Michael Littlewood

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: March 14, 2016

Abstract

Hong Kong’s network of double tax agreements (DTAs) is notable in several respects. First, it was put together very recently. Secondly, despite its very recent origins, it is already quite extensive. Thirdly, Hong Kong’s tax base is so narrow that its DTAs (which are all based closely on the OECD Model) hardly require it to surrender any revenue at all. Fourthly, even before Hong Kong had entered into any DTAs, it was common for firms and affluent individuals to use the territory as a tax haven (that is, to structure their affairs through it so as to reduce their liability to tax in other jurisdictions); and its treaty network makes it an even more advantageous haven than before. Moreover, Hong Kong’s DTAs are no less susceptible to treaty-shopping than any other DTA (and more susceptible than many). It appears probable, therefore, that treaty-shopping will become common.

Because of Hong Kong’s usefulness as a tax haven, it seems probable that its DTAs will in time give rise to a disproportionately large number of disputes. Specifically, countries that have entered into DTAs with Hong Kong are likely to deny treaty benefits claimed by firms resident in Hong Kong – and a fortiori treaty benefits claimed by the Hong Kong-resident subsidiaries of firms resident in other countries. For these reasons Hong Kong seems destined to play a significant role in the evolution of the law relating to tax treaty disputes. But whilst it seems probable that disputes will arise in the countries that have entered into DTAs with Hong Kong, it seems unlikely that many disputes will arise in Hong Kong. The reason is that there are almost no circumstances in which Hong Kong’s DTAs provide for relief from Hong Kong taxes (the reason for that, in turn, being the narrowness of Hong Kong’s tax base). Thus, whilst Hong Kong seems destined to make a significant contribution to the law relating to tax treaty disputes, it will do so not by resolving such disputes but, rather, by generating disputes that other countries (Hong Kong’s treaty partners) will be called upon to resolve.

Keywords: Tax, tax treaty, double tax agreement, Hong Kong, tax haven, dispute, treaty shopping, treaty network, business profits, dividends, interest, royalties, permanent establishment

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Littlewood, Michael, Hong Kong and Tax Treaty Disputes (March 14, 2016). Eduardo Baistrocchi, ed, A Global Analysis of Tax Treaty Disputes, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3540606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Hong Kong has extraordinarily high levels of both inward and outward foreign investment, especially relative to its population (about seven million) 124 and GDP (US$308 billion in 2015/2016). 125 In 2014 Hong Kong was the world's second largest importer of FDI at US$103 billion (behind the Chinese Mainland) 126 and the second largest exporter of FDI at US$143 billion (behind the US). 127 As at
Economic Context -What has been the stock of FDI (inward and outward) since 1963 to the present? As indicated above Posted: 2015-12
The Structure of the Law for Solving Tax Treaty Interpretation Disputes -What is the structure of the law of the country for solving tax treaty interpretation disputes? For example
CIA World Factbook Posted: 2015
Crossref
C John , Tsang
Budget Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
RANK
805,836
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies