Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Statutory Auditors and Tax Compliance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

Posted: 14 Apr 2020

Charoula Daskalaki

University of Crete, Department of Economics

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 23, 2020

Abstract

Using a unique, quasi-natural experiment, we evaluate the recruitment of statutory external auditors for tax inspection purposes. In 2011, statutory external auditors were assigned to certify the tax compliance of firms subject to a regulatory change enacted by a state directive in Greece. Under this new directive, besides the audit report for financial statements, auditors were responsible to prepare the “Tax Compliance Report” (TCR) to assure that the audited firm complies with official tax rules. We investigate whether this proactive measure had any effect on firms’ tax avoidance behavior. Using a difference-in-differences research design, our empirical results suggest that non-conforming tax avoidance for treated firms (i.e. firms subject to tax audits) significantly decreased in the post-TCR period compared to that of the control sample (i.e. firms not subject to tax audits). Conversely, conforming tax avoidance increased. This evidence suggests that treated firms switched from non-conforming to conforming tax avoidance activities.

Keywords: Tax avoidance; Statutory auditors; Tax enforcement

JEL Classification: G3; H25; H26; K34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Daskalaki, Charoula and Karampinis, Nikolaos I., Statutory Auditors and Tax Compliance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (February 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies