Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Complexity in Canada: A Comparative Perspective

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 20

51 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020 Last revised: 27 Apr 2021

Susann Sturm

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: February 25, 2020

Abstract

Motivated by concerns about Canada’s tax system being overly complex, this study examines the Canadian corporate income tax system complexity faced by multinational corporations and compares it to the average complexity from other OECD countries, using the survey data of the Tax Complexity Index. I find that, with regard to the Canadian tax code, the most complex regulations are those on corporate reorganization, transfer pricing and controlled foreign corporations; while in relation to the Canadian tax framework the most complex areas are tax audits, tax law enactment and tax guidance. Relative to the other OECD countries, Canada has a medium level of total complexity. However, the tax code is slightly more complex than the average of the other OECD countries, driven by a higher overall complexity level of certain tax regulations in Canada, such as those on corporate reorganization. In contrast, the tax framework is similarly complex as the average of the other OECD countries. There are no substantial differences in the overall complexity level of the tax framework areas between Canada and the other OECD countries.

Keywords: tax complexity, survey, Canada, comparative analysis, OECD

JEL Classification: K34, C83, O51

Suggested Citation:

Sturm, Susann, Tax Complexity in Canada: A Comparative Perspective (February 25, 2020). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3544366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3544366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
A Abdulla
Goodwill Sale: Everything Must Go Posted: 2016
Sas Tullo
Answering Canadian Tax Questions: An Introduction to Tax Law Research
Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 30/2015 Pages: 49 Posted: 13 Jan 2015 Last revised: 16 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B J Arnold
Comparative Income Taxation: A Structural Analysis Posted: 2020
Crossref
J Ault , B J Arnold , . G S Cooper
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
247,257
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies