Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constructive Dialogue: BEPS and the TCJA

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 665

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-004

23 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2020 Last revised: 18 May 2020

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: February 24, 2020

Abstract

US international tax law is commonly conceived as developed in the US and influencing the development of other countries' international tax law. This paper will argue that in the case of the TCJA, the US legislation was heavily influenced by the OECD BEPS project, and that the continuing OECD work in Pillars I and II is likely to have a similar influence on the future development of US international tax law.


Keywords: BEPS, TCJA

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Constructive Dialogue: BEPS and the TCJA (February 24, 2020). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 665, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3544065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3544065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
258,444
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies