Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Takes Advantage of Tax-Deferred Savings Programs? Evidence From Federal Income Tax Data

National Tax Journal, 54:3, pp.669-688, 2001

20 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2020

David P. Richardson

TIAA Institute

David Joulfaian

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA); Georgetown University - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 15, 2001

Abstract

This paper provides insight into the attributes of wage-earning households that participate in tax-deferred retirement savings plans. Examining data from federal tax returns, we find that approximately 52 percent of individuals and 55 percent of households participated in a retirement savings program in 1996. Excluding households with wages within the 1996 poverty thresholds and individuals under age 21 or over age 70, the age-wage restricted participation rates were 66 percent and 79 percent for individuals and households, respectively. Estimating probit equations, we find that households with a single-earner or having dependents are less likely to participate in a plan. Higher wage-earnings, non-labor income, and marginal tax rates tend to increase the probability of participation.

Keywords: Retirement, Income Tax

JEL Classification: H2, D14, D91

Suggested Citation:

Richardson, David P. and Joulfaian, David, Who Takes Advantage of Tax-Deferred Savings Programs? Evidence From Federal Income Tax Data (September 15, 2001). National Tax Journal, 54:3, pp.669-688, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3545351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Employee Benefits in Medium and Large Private Establishments, 1997. Department of Labor Posted: 1999
William Gale
The Impact of Pensions and 401(k) Plans on Saving: A Critical Assessment of the State of the Literature
Employee Benefits in Medium and Large Private Establishments Posted: 1997
David Joulfaian , David Richardson
Contributions to Tax-deferred Employer Retirement Plans Posted: 1995
Individual Tax File
U.S. Treasury. Mimeo Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
769
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies