Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rationalizing the Arbitrary Foreign Tax Credit

San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 20-438

Tax Law Review

61 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2021 Last revised: 30 Aug 2023

Jordan M. Barry

University of Southern California Gould School of Law

Ariel Jurow Kleiman

University of Southern California Gould School of Law

Date Written: February 21, 2021

Abstract

The foreign tax credit is a cornerstone of the United States’ international tax regime and enjoys broad bipartisan support. Yet despite its enduring popularity, careful analysis reveals that the foreign tax credit is surprisingly arbitrary. Taxes are creditable in their entirety or not at all, and only “pure” income taxes receive a credit. Even a slight deviation from the law’s narrow definition of an income tax renders a foreign tax completely uncreditable.

The current approach is clearly problematic. It is a fundamental tenet of tax policy that the law should treat items based on their economic substance, but the credit’s all-or-nothing approach does not. Nor do the policy rationales underlying the foreign tax credit support starkly different treatment for pure income taxes compared to all other taxes.

We identify principles to reform the foreign tax credit in accordance with economic substance and the policy goals underlying the credit. We then use those principles to evaluate various possible reforms. Depending on which goals policymakers choose to prioritize, plausible options range from eliminating the credit to greatly expanding its scope. But in any event, the way forward involves abandoning the credit’s sharp, arbitrary distinction between pure income taxes and all other taxes.


Keywords: tax, tax policy, international taxation, corporate taxation, foreign tax credit

JEL Classification: K34, H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Barry, Jordan and Jurow Kleiman, Ariel, Rationalizing the Arbitrary Foreign Tax Credit (February 21, 2021). San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 20-438, Tax Law Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3548960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Elke Asen
What European OECD Countries Are Doing About Digital Services Taxes, TAX FOUND Posted: 2020-10-14
Id
Eur , Joe Comm , Kennedy
Digital Services Taxes: A Bad Idea Whose Time Should Never Come, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION FOUNDATION Posted: 2019-05-13
One reason digital services taxes target revenues is to avoid the strictures of income tax treaties that limit nations' powers to tax international income
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,036
RANK
168,642
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies