Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What the CJEU’s Hungarian Cases Mean for Digital Taxes

11 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2020 Last revised: 28 Apr 2020

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: March 8, 2020

Abstract

Last week, the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) rendered its judgment in two much-anticipated cases—Tesco-Global and Vodafone –that involve challenges to Hungarian turnover tax. Americans have closely watched these cases for what they may reveal about prospects for success of challenges U.S.-parented companies might bring against a growing set of European digital taxes. Both Hungarian cases involved challenges to the same “special tax,” a tax on net turnover from retail and digital advertising. Under Hungary's graduated special tax, all the businesses in zero bracket were Hungarian-owned, and all (or nearly all ) the companies in the highest bracket were foreign-owned.

These cases were closely watched because if the CJEU had ruled that the Hungarian special tax discriminated in violation of the fundamental freedoms, it would imply that digital taxes would suffer the same fate. On the other hand, wins for Hungary would imply that challenges to digital taxes would be unsuccessful. Hungary won both cases, which does not bode well for digital-tax challenges.

This article discusses the implications of the Hungarian cases for potential challenges to European digital taxes, and in particular for cases based on the argument I made with Leopoldo Parada in 2018 that unilateral digital taxes may violate the fundamental freedoms as discriminatory taxes because they disproportionately affect foreign companies. I conclude that, although the Hungarian cases could be criticized for being thinly reasoned and departing from precedent, and although digital taxes are distinguishable, Tesco-Global and Vodafone overwhelmingly signal that the CJEU will not be receptive to digital-tax challenges.

Keywords: digital tax, Hervis, Vodafone, CJEU, Tesco

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Ruth, What the CJEU’s Hungarian Cases Mean for Digital Taxes (March 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3550757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3550757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Mikhail Aleksandrovich Eremkin
Legal regulation of digital services taxation in the European countries
Налоги и налогообложение , issue 5 , p. 32 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,049
RANK
190,354
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies