Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimizing Tax Administration Policies with Machine Learning

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 436

27 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2020

Pietro Battiston

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Simona Gamba

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan - Department of Economics and Finance

Alessandro Santoro

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Economics, Psychology & Social Sciences (CISEPS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

Tax authorities around the world are increasingly employing data mining and machine learning algorithms to predict individual behaviour. Although the traditional literature on optimal tax adminis- tration provides useful tools for ex-post evaluation of policies, it dis- regards the problem of which taxpayers to target. This study identifies and characterises a loss function that assigns a social cost to any prediction-based policy. We define such measure as the difference between the social welfare of a given policy and that of an ideal pol- icy unaffected by prediction errors. We show how this loss function shares a relationship with the receiver operating characteristic curve, a standard statistical tool used to evaluate prediction performance. Subsequently, we apply our measure to predict inaccurate tax returns issued by self-employed and sole proprietorships in Italy. In our ap- plication, a random forest model provides the best prediction: we show how it can be interpreted using measures of variable importance developed in the machine learning literature.

Keywords: policy prediction problems, tax behavior, big data, machine learning

JEL Classification: H26, H32, C53

Suggested Citation:

Battiston, Pietro and Gamba, Simona and Santoro, Alessandro, Optimizing Tax Administration Policies with Machine Learning (March 11, 2020). University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3552533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
levels': method-specific hyperparameters (see Section 3.2). 'Threshold': threshold value for being targeted by the policy, resulting in the lowest value of loss function. L: corresponding value of the loss function (thousands of euros)
J Alm
What motivates tax compliance
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the radar: The effects of monitoring firms on tax compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Beer , M Kasper , E Kirchler , B Erard
Do Audits Deter or Provoke Future Tax Noncompliance? Evidence on Self-employed Taxpayers? IMF Working Papers, Fiscal Affairs Department 223 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,225
RANK
122,812
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies