Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sasol Oil Case – Would the Present South African GAAR Stand Up to the Rigours of the Court?

Pidduck, T. (2020), "The Sasol Oil case – Would the present South African GAAR stand up to the rigours of the court?", South African Journal of Accounting Research. Vol 34 No. 3. ISSN: 1029-1954 (Print) 2376-3981.

35 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2020 Last revised: 19 Mar 2021

Teresa Pidduck

University of Pretoria

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

South Africa finds itself vulnerable to exploitation by the measures taken by multinational enterprises (MNEs) who seek to enter into tax avoidance schemes that artificially shift profits to low- or no-tax jurisdictions. While common law, specific and general anti-avoidance measures may be used as a defence against these schemes, there has been no judicial consideration of the current South African general anti avoidance rule (GAAR) since its replacement in 2006. In this context this paper makes two contributions. First, the paper applies the current GAAR to a recent case where the predecessor to the current GAAR was applied to a scheme entered into by an MNE. This is done in order to determine if the current GAAR (unlike its predecessor) is able to stand up to the rigours of court when presented with similar facts. In doing so it demonstrates how the untested GAAR may be interpreted and applied. Second, the paper makes suggestions for amendment to the current GAAR in order to improve its efficacy in an international context.

Keywords: tax; avoidance; GAAR; case law; multinational enterprise; cross border

Suggested Citation:

Pidduck, Teresa, The Sasol Oil Case – Would the Present South African GAAR Stand Up to the Rigours of the Court? (March 11, 2020). Pidduck, T. (2020), "The Sasol Oil case – Would the present South African GAAR stand up to the rigours of the court?", South African Journal of Accounting Research. Vol 34 No. 3. ISSN: 1029-1954 (Print) 2376-3981. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
C Alley , D Bentley
The increasing imperative of cross-disciplinary research in tax administration
eJournal of tax Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2008
Australian Government
Final report of the Review of Business Taxation -A tax system redesigned. Canberra Australia: Australian Government Printing Service Council of Australian Law Deans Posted: 1999
J W. ; A P Creswell , R C Williams
Qualitative inquiry & research design: Choosing among five approaches. California: Sage De Koker
Cape Town: LexisNexis Butterworths Posted: 2007
A P De Koker , R C Williams
Cape Town: LexisNexis Butterworths Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
397,014
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies