Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Loss Measurement

42 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2020 Last revised: 11 Aug 2021

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Rebecca Lester

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 10, 2021

Abstract

We use financial disclosures to develop a novel proxy for net operating loss carryforward (NOL) tax benefits. This approach more accurately identifies firms with tax losses, more precisely measures the tax loss, and better predicts reductions in future taxes than existing proxies. We derive a prediction model, which future researchers can employ to better approximate the NOL tax benefits based on readily available financial data. We also demonstrate how NOL nonlinearity affects measurement of corporate tax status. By proposing a new measure and demonstrating trade-offs across competing proxies, we contribute to the work in public economics, corporate finance, and tax accounting that examines the responsiveness of the business sector to corporate tax incentives.

Keywords: Net Operating Losses, Taxes, Measurement

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H29, G30

Suggested Citation:

Heitzman, Shane and Lester, Rebecca, Tax Loss Measurement (August 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3553527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Marcel Olbert
The Impact of Tax Shields on Bankruptcy Risk and Resource Allocation
Review of Accounting Studies · 66 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 30 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 1,088
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Grace Liu
Data quality problems troubling business and financial researchers: A literature review and synthetic analysis
Journal of Business & Finance Librarianship , volume 25 , issue 3-4 , p. 315 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,091
RANK
136,211
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies