Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Accounting Conservatism, CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management: Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia

Afrizal, Putra, W. E., Yuliusman, & Hernando, R. (2020). The Effect of Accounting Conservatism , CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management : Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia. International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology, 29(04), 1441–1456.

16 Pages Posted: 21 May 2020 Last revised: 23 Jul 2020

Afrizal Afrizal

Universitas Jambi

Wirmie Eka Putra

Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis Universitas Jambi

Yuliusman Yuliusman

Jambi University - Faculty of Economics and Business; Fakultas Ekonomi dan Bisnis

Riski Hernando

Universitas Jambi

Date Written: March 14, 2020

Abstract

The aims of the study is to know the effect of conservatism accounting, corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure and tax avoidance on earnings management. In this study variable of conservatism accounting was proxy by accrual. Variable of CSR disclosure was proxy by corporate social responsibility index (CSRI) which refers to guidelines CSRI version GRI-G4 and GRI Standard. Variable of tax avoidance was proxied by CETR. The sample used in this research was mining companies listed in the Indonesia Stock Exchange (henceforth, IDX) from 2015–2017. Used purposive sampling, 13 companies were selected from total of 39 data. To analysis the data, this study used descriptive statistics and data panel regression analysis with software eviews7. The finding showed that, as simultaneously, conservatism accounting, CSR disclosure, and tax avoidance influenced earnings management. However, as partially, conservatism accounting influenced earnings management, while CSR disclosure, and tax avoidance did not influence earnings management. Company management can design an advanced implementation mechanism by not carrying out tax planning that is illegal and can be detrimental to the State, and does not worsen the company's image and reputation in the public eye. The financial accounting standards board must enact regulations that can minimize tax avoidance and earnings management. This regulation is needed to increase the responsibility of management and accountants in the credibility of financial statements.

Keywords: Agency theory, conservatism accounting, corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure, earnings management, tax avoidance.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Afrizal, Afrizal and Eka Putra, Wirmie and Yuliusman, Yuliusman and Hernando, Riski, The Effect of Accounting Conservatism, CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management: Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia (March 14, 2020). Afrizal, Putra, W. E., Yuliusman, & Hernando, R. (2020). The Effect of Accounting Conservatism , CSR Disclosure and Tax Avoidance on Earnings Management : Some Evidence From Listed Companies in Indonesia. International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology, 29(04), 1441–1456., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Y Almahrog , Z Ali Aribi , T Arun
Earnings Management And Corporate Social Responsibility: UK Evidence
Journal Of Financial Reporting And Accounting Posted: 2018
Crossref
A Arief , M D Ardiyanto
Pengaruh Pengungkapan Corporate Social Resposibility Terhadap Manajemen Laba (Studi Kasus Pada Perusahaan Non Keuangan dan Jasa yang Terdaftar di BEI tahun 2010-2012)
DIPONEGORO JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2014
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H.-L Chih , C.-H Shen , F.-C Kang
Corporate Social Responsibility, Investor Protection and Earnings Management: Some International Evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 79 , issue 1/2 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,284
RANK
36,009
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies