Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large and Influential: Firm Size and Governments’ Corporate Tax Rate Choice?

Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation Working Paper 16/05

45 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2020

Tobias Böhm

University of Münster

Nadine Riedel

Ruhr University of Bochum

Martin Simmler

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin)

Date Written: April 1, 2016

Abstract

Theory suggests that large firms are more likely to engage in lobbying behaviour and have better bargaining positions against their host governments than smaller entities. Conditional on jurisdiction size, public policy choices are thus predicted to depend on the shape of a jurisdiction's firm size distribution, with more business-friendly policies being enacted if economic activity is concentrated in a small number of entities. We empirically assess this prediction studying local business tax choices of German municipalities. Exploiting rich and quasi-experimental variation in localities' firm size structures, we find evidence for an inverse relationship between the concentration of economic activity and communities' business tax choices. The effect is statistically significant and quantitatively relevant, suggesting that the rising importance of large businesses may trigger shifts towards a more business-friendly design of (tax) policies.

Keywords: Firm size, corporation tax, political economy

JEL Classification: H2, H7

Suggested Citation:

Böhm, Tobias and Riedel, Nadine and Simmler, Martin, Large and Influential: Firm Size and Governments’ Corporate Tax Rate Choice? (April 1, 2016). Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation Working Paper 16/05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3555025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Alesina , E Spolaore
On the Number and Size of Nations
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 112 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1056 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T W Anderson , Cheng Hsiao
Formulation and Estimation of Dynamic Models Using Panel Data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 18 , p. 47 - 82 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R Baldwin , P Krugman
Agglomeration, Integration and Tax Harmonisation
European Economic Review , volume 48 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Baldwin , T Okubo
Delocation, Taxes and Heterogeneous Firms
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 111 , issue 4 , p. 741 - 764 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
778,997
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies