Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is VAT Also a Corporate Tax? Untangling Tax Burdens and Benefits for Companies

LSE Legal Studies Working Paper 2/2020

25 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2020

Ian Roxan

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: March 16, 2020

Abstract

The Great Financial Crisis has increased concerns about whether corporations are paying a ‘fair’ amount of tax in different countries. This begs the question of what a ‘fair’ amount of tax is. The question is complicated by the continuing lack of clarity about the economic incidence of corporate income tax. Recently, it has been argued that the location of the sales revenue (turnover) of a corporation is relevant in determining the fair allocation. Of course, in many countries there is already a tax based on sales, value-added tax (VAT), also called goods and services tax (GST). This paper explores an illustration, arising from a series of cases before the European Court of Justice, of how VAT can impose a burden on corporations. The illustration raises issues of principle for VAT, but also offers lessons about how we tax corporations, particularly given proposals such as for digital sales taxes in the EU and the idea of a destination-based cash-flow tax included in legislative proposals in the US in 2016. This article explores the puzzles raised by the illustration and shows how it can throw light not only on the nature of VAT but also on the incidence of corporate income tax.

Keywords: Value added tax, corporate income tax, holding companies, economic incidence of tax, globalisation and tax

Suggested Citation:

Roxan, Ian, Is VAT Also a Corporate Tax? Untangling Tax Burdens and Benefits for Companies (March 16, 2020). LSE Legal Studies Working Paper 2/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3555142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
This argument goes back at least to Case 89/81 Staatssecretaris Van Financiën v Hong Kong Trade Development Council Posted: 1982
This is the wording now in VAT Directive
Floridienne
Opinion of AG Fennelly, para 19. 71 ibid para 26
Richard J Vann
Tax Treaties: The Secret Agent's Secrets , p. 345 - 82 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,931
RANK
290,067
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

LSE Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies