Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Zero-Tax Firms

60 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2020

Jesse van der Geest

Tilburg University

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: March 25, 2020

Abstract

We study profitable firms with no tax expenses. We find that the proportion of profitable firms that owe zero taxes (zero-tax firms) has increased substantially over the past 70 years, accounting for almost 15% of listed U.S. firms in recent years. Zero-tax firms thus represent a major group of tax avoiders. However, we find that zero-tax firms avoid taxes using nonaggressive means: loss-related deductions and nontaxable income are important factors, whereas international tax avoidance plays a minor role. This paper further demonstrates that the large share of zero-tax firms can potentially drive results and affect inferences in tax avoidance studies. Taken together, we show that zero-tax firms are a unique and important subset of tax avoiders.

Keywords: ETR, tax avoidance, rate reconciliation, tax aggressiveness, losses

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

van der Geest, Jesse and Jacob, Martin, Zero-Tax Firms (March 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3561016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3561016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming Tax Avoidance and Capital Market Pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J Blouin
Defining and Measuring Tax Planning Aggressiveness
National Tax Journal , volume 67 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Z Bozanic , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , B M Williams
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 114 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,092
RANK
204,172
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies