Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Tax Competition to Subsidy Competition

42 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 445 (2020)

41 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2020 Last revised: 11 Jan 2021

Noam Noked

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Recent international tax reforms provide an advantage to nontax subsidies over economically equivalent tax benefits. Under several international tax standards, multinational enterprises are generally better off when they receive non-tax subsidies instead of equivalent tax benefits. As a result, countries now have a stronger incentive to adopt non-tax subsidies in order to attract the investment of multinational enterprises. This tax-driven preference for non-tax subsidies could shape the landscape of international tax and subsidy competition in the future. This Article contends that this preference cannot be justified on policy grounds. To treat equivalent measures similarly, this Article proposes several changes in the international tax standards, as well as the design of the OECD’s recent proposal for a global minimum tax.

Keywords: Tax Competition; Subsidy Competition; BEPS; Global Minimum Tax; GloBE; Tax Incentives; R&D Incentives; Tax Benefits; Subsidies; Tax Competition

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Noked, Noam, From Tax Competition to Subsidy Competition (2020). 42 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 445 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3565835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Invest , Korea
FDI Procedures & Incentives Posted: 2017
Crossref
See Silvia Appelt , Fernando Galindo-Rueda , &amp; Ana Cinta Gonzalez Carbal
Measuring R&D Tax Support: Findings from the New OECD R&D Tax Incentives Database Posted: 2019
Crossref
See Weisbach & Nussim, supra note 15, at 957 (arguing that the decision to use the tax system to carry out a non-tax program is not a question of tax policy but rather one of institutional design)
Disclosure of certain subsidies may be required under domestic law, the WTO subsidy rules, and the EU state aid rules. See sources cited supra note 60 (describing Commission regulations and WTO rules governing disclosure of certain subsidies). However, many subsidies might not fall within the scope of these rules
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,659
RANK
237,609
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies