Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealth and Taxes

Cato Institute, Tax and Budget Bulletin No. 86

13 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020

John H. Cochrane

Hoover Institution; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: April 2, 2020

Abstract

Wealth inequality has become a heated political issue. Politicians claim that wealth concentration is rising and that people at the top are gaining at other people’s expense. In this study, I examine problems with the measurement of wealth and discuss whether wealth inequality is an issue that public policy needs to address. I also consider the likely effects of wealth taxation. I concur with views from the left that political rent‐​seeking should be curtailed and that finding economic oppor­tunities for less‐​fortunate Americans is important. But I argue that a new system of wealth taxes is more likely to hurt rather than help those goals.

Section 1 discusses how measuring the wealth distribution from capitalizing income flows produces deeply misleading results.

Section 2 shows how some measures of wealth inequality have risen in recent years due to falling interest rates and rising asset prices. Those developments do not make people better off in terms of resources available for consumption, which reinforces the conclusion that wealth inequality is not a useful concept above and beyond consumption or income inequality.

Section 3 examines the distinction between consumption, income, and wealth inequality. Market wealth is a poor indicator of well‐​being; it ignores taxes and transfers and thus inflates measured inequality. Top‐​end wealth is mainly in the form of business assets, which are used to employ people and produce the economy’s output.

Section 4 describes why wealth taxes are a poor way to raise revenues, as they would undermine growth and generate large‐​scale tax evasion. Consumption taxes are a better revenue source.

Section 5 examines how support for wealth taxation has less to do with economics and more to do with politics. Economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, for example, argue for wealth taxes in order to confiscate the wealth of billionaires who they believe have too much polit­ical power. I argue that a wealth tax would produce more cronyism and inequality.

I conclude that wealth inequality is not a useful measure, especially of economic problems facing Americans who are less well off, and that wealth taxation would cause major economic and political damage.

Keywords: wealth inequality, taxes, economics, wealth distribution, consumption, income, wealth tax, tax evasion

JEL Classification: I00, I3, I30, I39, K34, H2, H20, H21, H24, H25, H29

Suggested Citation:

Cochrane, John H., Wealth and Taxes (April 2, 2020). Cato Institute, Tax and Budget Bulletin No. 86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3567365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Wealth Inequality in the United States since 1913: Evidence from Capitalized Income Tax Data
The 2016 study was Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman , volume 131 , p. 519 - 578 Posted: 2016-05
Crossref
Matthew Smith , Owen Zidar , Eric Zwick
Top Wealth in the United States: New Estimates and Implications for Taxing the Rich Posted: 2019-07-19
Zidar Smith , Zwick
Top Wealth in the United States
Zidar Smith , Zwick
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Paul Mason , Steven Utke
Mark-to-Market (or Wealth) Taxation in the U.S.: Evidence from Options
52 Pages · Posted: 2 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 242
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matthew Smith , Owen Zidar , Eric Zwick
Top Wealth in America: New Estimates and Implications for Taxing the Rich
University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2021-119 · 77 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 245
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luis Bauluz , Filip Novokmet , Moritz Schularick
The Anatomy of the Global Saving Glut
CESifo Working Paper No. 9732 · 76 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2022 · Downloads: 240
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luis Bauluz , Filip Novokmet , Moritz Schularick
The Anatomy of the Global Saving Glut
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17215 · 77 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2022 · Downloads: 52
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
666
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,355
RANK
90,251
4 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies