Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections, Tax Benefits and Firm Performance: Evidence from China

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 31, No. 3, 2012

51 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020

Wenfeng Wu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University - Antai College of Economics & Management

Chongfeng Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chunyang Zhou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jun Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This paper investigates the different effects of political connections on the firm performance of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and privately owned enterprises. Using data on Chinese listed firms from 1999 to 2007, we find that private firms with politically connected managers outperform those without such managers, whereas local SOEs with connected managers underperform those without such managers. Moreover, we find that private firms with politically connected managers enjoy tax benefits, whereas local SOEs with politically connected managers are prone to more severe over-investment problems. Our study reconciles the mixed findings of previous studies on the effect of political connections on firm performance.

Keywords: Political Connections; Firm Performance; Tax Benefits; Over-investment; China

JEL Classification: G32; G38; H25

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Wenfeng and Wu, Chongfeng and Zhou, Chunyang and Wu, Jun, Political Connections, Tax Benefits and Firm Performance: Evidence from China (2012). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 31, No. 3, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3573416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
China Statistical Yearbook Posted: 2008
M A Petersen
Estimating standard errors in finance panel data sets: Comparing approaches
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 435 - 480 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Pistor , C Xu
Governing stock markets in transition economies: Lessons from China
American Law and Economics Review , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Y Qian , G Roland
The soft budget constraint in China
Japan and the World Economy , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 223 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,087
RANK
456,685
48 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies