Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Tax Incentive Defined: Promoting the Inflow of Foreign Direct Investment in Nigeria through Taxation

7 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020 Last revised: 9 Nov 2020

Samson Obiora

University of Lagos

Date Written: April 15, 2020

Abstract

In a world where a waxing number of governments contend emulously to attract multinational companies, fiscal policies have become a global phenomenon. Taxation as a critical fiscal policy measure poses as a veritable tool for magnetizing foreign participation, otherwise conceptualized in this context as "foreign direct investment (FDI)", which has been used by several countries in the world to further their economic objectives. The paper in adopting a qualitative research method, examines the sensitivity of foreign direct investment in Nigeria to taxation practices. The paper highlights that the tax incentive policy of the Nigerian tax system is a good driver of foreign investment in Nigeria. While the efficacy of taxation remains questionable, the paper whilst in conclusion recommends a justifiable level of fiscal incentives, and a stable political and economic climate as a panacea in achieving the desired effect.


Keywords: Taxation, Foreign Direct Investment, Tax Incentives and Cost Benefit

Suggested Citation:

Obiora, Samson, Taxation and Tax Incentive Defined: Promoting the Inflow of Foreign Direct Investment in Nigeria through Taxation (April 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3576372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Main concepts and definitions of foreign direct Investment
OECD benchmark definition of FDI 2008: fourth edition , volume 17 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Jacque , P Neda
How tax policy and Incentives affect foreign direct investment: A review Posted: 2000
B A Adeolu
Foreign Direct Investment and Economic Growth: Evidence from Nigeria Posted: 2007
A Nwankwo
The determinants of foreign direct investment inflow in Nigeria , volume 17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
RANK
337,844
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies