Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intertemporal Income Shifting for Investment Reasons: Evidence From Private Firms

51 Pages Posted: 18 May 2020 Last revised: 16 Jun 2023

Cinthia Valle Ruiz

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Maria‐del‐Mar Camacho‐Miñano

- Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: June 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the intertemporal income shifting behavior of private firms, as well as the level and efficiency of aggressive intertemporal income shifters’ investments in the wake of corporate tax cuts. Earlier research has focused mainly on public firms. However, research into private firms is especially relevant since these companies tend to finance future growth through internal financing. Using a sample of 2,650 firm-year observations of private Spanish firms, our results thus show that private companies engaged in intertemporal income shifting to gain additional tax savings in the presence of corporate tax cuts. This was particularly observed in the presence of significant investment opportunities and timing pressures to shift income. Additionally, we provide evidence that aggressive intertemporal income shifters invested more in labor capital after tax reforms than other firms and that such investments were efficient.

Keywords: Corporate tax cuts; intertemporal income shifting; internal financing dependence; investment efficiency; private firms.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H21, H32

Suggested Citation:

Valle Ruiz, Cinthia and Campa, Domenico and Camacho-Miñano, María-del-Mar, Intertemporal Income Shifting for Investment Reasons: Evidence From Private Firms (June 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3581685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3581685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,437
RANK
459,276
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies