Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Changes in Income Shifting on Affiliate Managers’ Internal Reporting Decisions

58 Pages Posted: 18 May 2020 Last revised: 18 Mar 2021

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Cinthia Valle Ruiz

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 17, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the interplay between tax and internal reporting incentives among affiliates of multinational corporations (MNCs). Using granular data of affiliates belonging to MNCs from 21 European countries, our study provides new empirical evidence of affiliate reporting responses induced by changing tax plans. As a baseline, we show some evidence that in general, affiliates’ discretionary accruals are negatively correlated with affiliate tax rates, similar to income shifting responses. When high tax-rate countries tighten income shifting rules, we first document that income shifting is reduced and low tax-rate affiliates have less income. Second, we document that managers of these low tax-rate affiliates offset this decrease in profits by managing earnings upwards. Our results are consistent with firms not adjusting quickly the affiliate managers’ incentives in the face of changing tax planning strategies, and affiliates manage reported earnings to offset the effect of changes in the tax planning of the firm.

Keywords: Multinational corporations, tax motivated income-shifting, financial reporting practices, managerial targets.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H21, H32, J33.

Suggested Citation:

Klassen, Kenneth and Valle Ruiz, Cinthia, The Effect of Changes in Income Shifting on Affiliate Managers’ Internal Reporting Decisions (March 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3581682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3581682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Sebastian Eichfelder , Martin Jacob , Nadine Kalbitz , Kelly Wentland
How Do Corporate Tax Rates Alter Conforming Tax Avoidance?
Accepted at the European Accounting Review · 46 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2020 · Last revised: 12 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bradley S. Blaylock , Elaine Doyle , Anastasios Elemes
Tax-Motivated Income Shifting in Audit-Firm Networks: Comparing Big 4 and non-Big 4 Firms
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2022 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Henning Giese , Reinald Koch , Markus Gamm
Tax Avoidance and Vertical Interlocks within Multinational Corporations
Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 270 · 49 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 6 May 2025 · Downloads: 154
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christof Beuselinck , Nathan C. Goldman , Jochen Pierk , Cinthia Valle Ruiz
Tax-related Key Audit Matters and Changes in Corporate Income Shifting
46 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 175
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
399,022
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies