Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the WTO Stop the Race to the Bottom? Tax Competition and the WTO

Forthcoming in Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 40, No. 1, Fall 2020

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper Forthcoming

79 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Martin Vallespinos

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: March 23, 2020

Abstract

In this article, I analyze the interaction between income tax competition and the multilateral trade regime. I argue that several forms of tax competition such as special tax zones (STZs), export tax incentives, participation exception, profit shifting toleration, and tax havens distort international trade and therefore should be policed by the WTO. I also argue that the international tax regime (ITR) will not be able to curtail these distortive effects anytime soon because of insurmountable collective action issues. The limitations of the ITR heighten the importance of a timely, thorough, and comprehensive response by the WTO, which has not been seen so far.

In addition to the legal application of the WTO agreements to tax competition measures, the article discusses the shortages, inconsistencies, and unfair results of the current WTO legal framework, and the immediate need for modernization. A first step for modernization will be achieved if WTO adjudicators use evolutive and systemic methods of interpretation. With the support of these methods, the WTO dispute settlement bodies could police several tax competition measures that have not been scrutinized in the past. A second step for modernization should be expanding the scope of the SCM to include services and digital industries. But this expansion would require reversing the current political inertia, which remains to be seen.


Keywords: international tax, international taxation, tax competition, WTO, trade regime, special tax zones, profit shifting

JEL Classification: H26, H87, K33

Suggested Citation:

Vallespinos, Martin, Can the WTO Stop the Race to the Bottom? Tax Competition and the WTO (March 23, 2020). Forthcoming in Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 40, No. 1, Fall 2020, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Jennifer Farrell
The Interface of International Trade Law and Taxation: Defining the Role of the WTO Posted: 2013
Scm See , Agreement
Crossref
Harmful Tax Competition: An Emerging Global Issue
OECD Posted: 1998
Crossref
Wto , Wto In Brief
Posted: 2020-03-14
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
354,141
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies