Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Tax Burdens in Canada’s Major Cities: The 2019 Report Card

C.D. Howe Institute e-brief 303, 2020

13 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Adam Found

University of Toronto

Date Written: April 23, 2020

Abstract

The best and worst major Canadian cities for business investment as measured by overall tax burden are identified in a new report by authors Adam Found and Peter Tomlinson.

Before a business decides to locate or expand in a given jurisdiction, it must consider the tax implications of such an investment. Heavy tax burdens reduce potential returns, driving investment away to other jurisdictions and, with it, the associated economic benefits.

Municipal business tax burdens are highest in Montreal, Halifax and St. John’s, while near the group average in Calgary, Charlottetown and Moncton. Vancouver showcases the most competitive municipal business tax environment, followed by Saskatoon, Toronto and Winnipeg.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy; Business and Capital Taxation;Business Investment; Property Taxes; Transparency of Public Finances; Urban Issues

JEL Classification: H25; H71

Suggested Citation:

Found, Adam, Business Tax Burdens in Canada’s Major Cities: The 2019 Report Card (April 23, 2020). C.D. Howe Institute e-brief 303, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3583882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Aitbek Amatov
The Effect of State Level Taxes on Employment Posted: 2015
Phillip Bazel , Jack Mintz
Canadian Policy Makers Respond to U.S. Tax Overhaul
Tax Policy Trends. Calgary: School of Public Policy Posted: 2019-06
Philip Bazel , Jack Mintz , Austin Thompson
The 2017 Tax Competitiveness Report: the Calm Before the Storm , volume 11 Posted: 2018
Richard M Bird , Enid Slack , Almos Tassonyi
A Tale of Two Taxes Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,667
RANK
584,242
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies