Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Comprehensive Tax Gain From Leverage

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Zhenhua Chen

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Deen Kemsley

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Padmakumar Sivadasan

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 23, 2020

Abstract

We expand the traditional specification of the tax gain from leverage by accounting for the choice between issuing debt and utilizing internal retained earnings equity. Standard analyses focus solely on the choice between debt and external equity. This results in the traditional tax gain from leverage, which equals the corporate tax benefit from debt minus the partially offsetting personal tax disadvantage. Expanding the debt analysis to include internal equity introduces a third tax component to the gain from leverage: a supplemental personal tax disadvantage. This supplemental disadvantage reflects the personal tax cost of distributing internally-generated equity to investors and using replacement debt. It reduces the overall or comprehensive tax gain from leverage and frequently converts it into a tax loss. Therefore, using debt often is costlier than generally assumed. We provide conceptual support for the comprehensive tax gain, plus some initial empirical support.

Keywords: gain from leverage, debt tax shield, pecking order, capital structure

JEL Classification: G32, H21, H24, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhenhua and Kemsley, Deen and Sivadasan, Padmakumar, The Comprehensive Tax Gain From Leverage (April 23, 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M Alderson , B Betker
Managerial incentives, net debt and investment activity in all-equity firms
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 29 , p. 232 - 246 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Federal income tax project: integration of the individual and corporate income taxes. Reporter's study of corporate tax integration Posted: 1993
A Auerbach
Share valuation and corporate equity policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , p. 291 - 305 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
359,301
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies