Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Electronic Gaming

77 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 661 (2020)

90 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020

Bryan Camp

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: April 26, 2020

Abstract

At a doctrinal level, the subject of this Article is timely. During this time of the coronavirus pandemic, casinos have been closed and large populations have been subject to stay-home orders from local and state authorities. One can reasonably expect a large increase in electronic gaming and thus an increased need for proper consideration of its taxation. This Article considers the proper way to tax electronic gaming of all kinds. It argues that a cash-out rule is the proper rule.

At a deeper level, the subject of this Article is timeless. Tax law is wickedly complex. This Article explores that complexity through the example of electronic gaming. It grapples with the source of that complexity: an inherent and unresolvable tension between economic theories of income and the practical needs of administering a system of taxation to a large population in a democracy. That tension has led some scholars to argue for a standards-based approach to taxation. This Article considers and rejects that argument. It argues that legal rules are necessary to mediate between theory and practice. Hence, this Article demonstrates the continued relevance and importance of doctrinal analysis in legal scholarship.

Keywords: constructive receipt, gambling, gaming, casinos, poker, electronic gaming, internet poker, internet gaming, economic substance, accouting periods, consumption, wealth, income, definition of income, history, economic thought, accounting theory, stocks, flows,

JEL Classification: B10, B13, B19, K19, K34, K40, K49

Suggested Citation:

Camp, Bryan T., Taxation of Electronic Gaming (April 26, 2020). 77 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 661 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3585945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
See Cass , R Sunstein
Rules may be simple or complex
L. REV , volume 953 Posted: 1995
See Id
Or it could be quite complex, creating a formula for deciding who may drive
If strictly followed, the rule will often produce arbitrariness and errors in particular cases. . . . [A]ny rule that people can generate will produce too much inaccuracy
E G See , U S Questions , Dept , Fed Transp , Admin
) (describing the complexities and variations in HOV lanes among states) (on file with the Washington and Lee Law Review). 277. For example, I see no mention of this in Kaplow's otherwise excellent discussion Posted: 2017-02-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
RANK
170,582
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies