Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Tax Shifts and the Revenue-Neutrality Dilemma

23:1 Florida Tax Review 293, 2019

56 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020

Rory Gillis

Western University Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

Over the past two decades, numerous experts and politicians have proposed “revenue-neutral carbon tax shifts,” under which a government implements a carbon tax and uses the resulting revenue to cut other taxes by an equal dollar amount. These proposals commonly include legal or political mechanisms to bind governments to revenue neutrality over time. This Article’s central claim is that revenue neutrality suffers from conceptual and epistemic confusion that should lead to reconsideration of the policy merits of carbon tax shifts. To illustrate the argument, the Article provides the first retrospective review in the legal literature of carbon tax shifts from four jurisdictions, two of which were implemented and then repealed, and two of which were rejected by voters at the ballot box. In each jurisdiction, the carbon tax shift was afflicted by confusion between two substantially different conceptions of revenue neutrality, which can be termed “backward-looking” and “sideways-looking” revenue neutrality. This confusion is difficult to resolve because the choice between the two conceptions presents governments with a dilemma: backward-looking revenue neutrality is normatively undesirable, while sideways-looking revenue neutrality is difficult to enforce through legal and political mechanisms. This Article argues that the dilemma should be taken into account when choosing between carbon tax shifts and alternative uses of carbon pricing revenues. The dilemma also has implications for revenue-neutral tax reform in other contexts: it is far harder to separate the question of “how to tax” from the question of “how much to tax” than is commonly understood.

Keywords: Carbon Taxation, Carbon Pricing, Carbon Tax Shifts, Revenue Neutrality, Tax Reform, Public Finance

JEL Classification: Q54, H23

Suggested Citation:

Gillis, Rory, Carbon Tax Shifts and the Revenue-Neutrality Dilemma (2019). 23:1 Florida Tax Review 293, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3587725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
codified at CaL. heaLth & safety § 39710 et seq. (West 2019) [hereinafter Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund]; see maC tayLor, CaL. LegisLative anaLyst's offiCe, CaPand-trade revenues: strategies to Promote LegisLative Priorities
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, Assembly Bill No. 1532 , volume 9 Posted: 2006
S A Climate Leadership Act
Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Brief Look at the Québec Cap-And-Trade-System for Emission Allowances
CLimate LeadershiP PLan: imPLementation PLan , volume 2 Posted: 2018
&amp; Carl , Fedor
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
499,164
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies