Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technocracy in the Era of Twitter. Between Intergovernmentalism and Supranational Technocratic Politics in Global Tax Governance

25 Pages Posted: 13 May 2020

Sol Picciotto

Lancaster University Law School; Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, University of London

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

The international tax system developed as a form of technocratic governance, aimed at facilitating international investment, neglecting provisions for cooperation between national governments for tax enforcement. Its endogenous flaws resulted in its politicization in the 1970s, and again in the 1990s, leading to an increasingly technicized form of global governance. The great financial crisis was even more disruptive and accelerated a shift towards increasingly volatile interactions between the spheres of technocracy and politics. Complex global problems requiring long time-horizons are dealt with by increasingly narrowly focused technical specialists, dominated by corporatized bureaucracies operating in public-private symbiosis; while in the sphere of politics, a wider public seeks simple solutions and mistrusts experts, with good reason given the experience of regulatory failures, often due to the capture of regulation by private interests. Instant communication favours opinion-formers claiming authority, while representative democracy has shifted to ‘audience representation’, opening the way for demagogue leaders, as well as clientelism and corruption. This destabilizes technical fields, opening up possibilities for a paradigm shift, illustrated by the dramatic changes of the last decade in international tax governance.

Keywords: international tax, avoidance, evasion, havens, offshore, BEPS, global governance, corporate capitalism, crisis.

JEL Classification: F23, F55, K34, M16, M42

Suggested Citation:

Picciotto, Sol, Technocracy in the Era of Twitter. Between Intergovernmentalism and Supranational Technocratic Politics in Global Tax Governance (April 28, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3587542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3587542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
L Ahrens , F Bothner
The Big Bang: Tax Evasion After Automatic Exchange of Information Under FATCA and CRS
New Political Economy Posted: 2019
Crossref
Andrus J Collier , R
Transfer Pricing and the Arm's Length Principle After BEPS Posted: 2017
The place of Africa in the shift towards Global Tax Governance: Can the taxation of the digitalised economy be an opportunity for more inclusiveness
ATAF Posted: 2019
Alan Jeffrey Auerbach , Michael P. Devereux , Michael Keen , John Vella
Destination-Based Cash Flow Taxation
Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14/2017, Saïd Business School WP 2017-09, Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation WP 17/01, Pages: 101 Posted: 13 Feb 2017 Last revised: 17 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
2 Citations
Sol Picciotto
Lawyers as Constructive Ideologists of Corporate Capitalism: The Legal Framing of Software
25 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2023 · Downloads: 62
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sol Picciotto
The Design of a UN Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation
18 Pages · Posted: 22 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 297
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
RANK
588,428
2 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies