Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Law Enforcement and the Size of the Informal Sector

51 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020

Miguel Acosta-Henao

Central Bank of Chile; CUNY Graduate Center

Date Written: April 23, 2020

Abstract

I assemble new cross-country evidence showing that contrary to the standard view, the relationship between the size of the informal sector and tax rates is, at best, ambiguous. Law enforcement and informality also show no clear relation. Motivated by these findings, I augment a standard two-sector (formal and informal) small open economy model with endogenous law enforcement that depends on the size of the informal sector (measured by its assets) and government expenditure. I use a micro-dataset from Colombia to show that both taxes and law enforcement are necessary to match the the size of the informal sector observed in the data. In the absence of law enforcement, tax evasion incentives imply a counterfactually large informal sector. However law enforcement motivates households to reduce the supply of capital to the informal sector, decreasing the probability of detection. The dependence of the latter on government expenditure creates a non-linearity between tax rates and the size of the informal sector through a Laffer curve. The model implies that lowering tax rates would not necessarily reduce the size of the informal sector since there is a trade-off with law enforcement capability.

Keywords: Informal sector, Law enforcement, Tax policy

JEL Classification: E26, E62, F41, O17

Suggested Citation:

Acosta-Henao, Miguel, Law Enforcement and the Size of the Informal Sector (April 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3588010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Mark Aguiar , Gita Gopinath
Emerging market business cycles: The cycle is the trend Posted: 2004
Crossref
Mark Aguiar , Gita Gopinath
Emerging market business cycles: The cycle is the trend
Journal of Political Economy , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 102 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Pedro S Amaral , Erwan Quintin
A competitive model of the informal sector
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 53 , issue 7 , p. 1541 - 1553 Posted: 2006
Crossref
David Bardey , Daniel Mejía
Informality and optimal public policy
Economía , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
572,233
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies