Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness in Brazilian Companies with Foreign Capital Participation

17 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Clébio Bis

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: April 30, 2020

Abstract

This study explores the relationship between tax aggressiveness and foreign capital participation in Brazilian companies listed on the BM&F BOVESPA from 2010 to 2015, using the concept of tax aggressiveness as a reduction of taxable income through tax management and planning (Chen et al., 2010). Observing that previous studies show a significant relationship between tax aggressiveness and ownership structures, this research seeks to understand whether this relationship is significant if there is foreign capital participation in the company. The sample was composed of Brazilian companies listed on the BM&F BOVESPA. Two metrics of tax aggressiveness were used to investigate this relationship: effective tax rate (ETR) and book-tax difference (BTD). The use of these metrics was inspired in a review on tax research by Hanlon and Heitzman (2010), who concluded that ETR and BTD could capture the reduction of taxable income through tax planning. The results showed no significant relationship between foreign capital participation and tax aggressiveness, demonstrating that the origin of equity capital is not a factor of tax aggressiveness.

Keywords: Foreign Capital Participation, Tax Aggressiveness, Tax Planning

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Bis, Clébio, Tax Aggressiveness in Brazilian Companies with Foreign Capital Participation (April 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3589280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3589280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
References , Bovespa
Posted: 2016
Crossref
Kong-Pin Chen , C. Y. Cyrus Chu
Internal Control vs External Manipulation: A Model of Corporate Income Tax Evasion
RAND Journal of Economics Pages: 25 Posted: 17 Dec 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than nonfamily firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Crocker , J Slemrod
Corporate tax evasion with agency cost
Journal of Public Economics , volume 91 , p. 1479 - 1505 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
RANK
713,739
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies