Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Restructuring: Reflections on Goodwill and Taxes

29 Pages Posted: 28 May 2020

Froystein Gjesdal

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: April 30, 2020

Abstract

International restructuring is frequently a necessary element in global tax planning. Restructuring based on “arm’s length” principles often involves transferring and paying for goodwill. Goodwill may be hard to identify and ephemeral, and presents difficult problem for accountants and tax authorities alike. This paper analyses a case of restructuring of a multinational corporation involving huge amounts of goodwill (approximately one billion USD), most of which subsequently disappeared. The company has been accused of tax as well as accounting fraud. Tax reporting and accounting are related because both represent the same set of facts. This paper provides a detailed analysis of the facts of the case without providing definite conclusions.

Keywords: Goodwill, taxes, Global Restructuring, Tax Evasion

JEL Classification: H2,M2,M4,F6

Suggested Citation:

Gjesdal, Froystein, Global Restructuring: Reflections on Goodwill and Taxes (April 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3589737 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3589737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Accounting Principles Board, Intangible Assets Posted: 1970
T Hansen , Asa Oppkjøpet Og Avviklingen Av Transocean
Crossref
Financial Accounting Standards Board, FAS 121 Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of Posted: 1995
International Accounting Standards Board, IFRS , volume 3 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
403,275
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies