Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Changes in Alcohol Tax Differentials on Alcohol Consumption

IZA Discussion Paper No. 13198

56 Pages Posted: 4 May 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Markus Gehrsitz

University of Strathclyde; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Henry Saffer

National Bureau of Economic Research

Michael Grossman

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), NY Office; CUNY The Graduate Center - Department of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We show that tax-induced increases in alcohol prices can lead to substantial substitution and avoidance behavior that limits reductions in alcohol consumption. Causal estimates are derived from a natural experiment in Illinois where spirits and wine taxes were raised sharply and unexpectedly in 2009. Beer taxes were increased by only a trivial amount. We construct representative and consistent measures of alcohol prices and sales from scanner data collected for hundreds of products in several thousand stores across the US.Using several difference-in-differences models, we show that alcohol excise taxes are instantly over-shifted by a factor of up to 1.5. Consumers react by switching to less expensive products and increase purchases of low-tax alcoholic beverages, thus all but offsetting any moderate, tax-induced reductions in total ethanol consumption. Our study highlights the importance of tax-induced substitution, the implications of differential tax increases by beverage group and the impacts on public health of alternative types of tax hikes whose main aims are to increase revenue.

Keywords: externalities, sin taxes, excise taxes, alcohol, health, difference-in-differences

JEL Classification: I12, H21, D12, D62

Suggested Citation:

Gehrsitz, Markus and Saffer, Henry and Grossman, Michael, The Effect of Changes in Alcohol Tax Differentials on Alcohol Consumption. IZA Discussion Paper No. 13198, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3590896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of californias tobacco control program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
R An , R Sturm
Does the response to alcohol taxes differ across racial/ethnic groups? some evidence from 1984-2009 behavioral risk factor surveillance system
The Journal of Mental Health Policy and Economics , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 2011
G S Becker , H G Lewis
On the interaction between the quantity and quality of children
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , issue 2 , p. 279 - S288 Posted: 1973
K Bedard , P Kuhn
Micro-marketing healthier choices: Effects of personalized ordering suggestions on restaurant purchases
Journal of Health Economics , volume 39 , p. 106 - 122 Posted: 2015-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies