Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Tax Loss Asymmetry for Owners of S-Corporations

61 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2020 Last revised: 9 Jun 2021

Lucas Goodman

U.S. Department of the Treasury

Elena Patel

Brookings Institution - Economic Studies Program

Molly Saunders-Scott

Government of the United States of America - Congressional Budget Office (CBO)

Date Written: June 2021

Abstract

In this paper, we study tax loss asymmetry for S corporate owners. These owners use most losses contemporaneously, reducing the tax asymmetry compared to C corporations. However, these owners face distortions due to the progressive individual tax schedule. The value of this asymmetry is approximately \$3.5 billion per year. We find that this asymmetry creates disincentives for risky investment and causes allocative inefficiencies among loss and gains owners. Finally, we simulate the effects of certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; we estimate that these provisions---especially section 199A---reduces the behavioral distortions of tax loss asymmetry for S corporate owners.

Keywords: Tax loss asymmetry, S corporations, effective tax rates, net operating loss

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Goodman, Lucas and Patel, Elena and Saunders-Scott, Molly, Implications of Tax Loss Asymmetry for Owners of S-Corporations (June 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3592884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3592884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Alan J Auerbach
The significance of tax law asymmetries: An empirical investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
The dynamic effects of tax law asymmetries
The review of economic studies , volume 53 , p. 205 - 225 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach , James M Poterba
Tax loss carryforwards and corporate tax incentives
The effects of taxation on capital accumulation , p. 305 - 342 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Jennifer Blouin , John E Core , Wayne Guay
Have the tax benefits of debt been overestimated?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 213 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
RANK
265,571
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies