Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness and Big4 Audit Firms

24 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2020

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Carla Hartmann

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 12, 2020

Abstract

This study examines the influence of external audits by Big4 or non-Big4 firms on the tax aggressiveness of listed Brazilian companies. Also, the research analyzes the impact on tax aggressiveness in the case of audit firm rotation, particularly when a company moves from Big4 to non-Big4 audit firms and vice versa. The sample was composed of 340 non-financial Brazilian companies, with shares traded in the Brazilian stock exchange B3, in the period between 2010 and 2016, and using two metrics to assess tax aggressiveness. The first is the book-tax difference (BTD) that reflects the difference between book income and taxable income. The second metric is the effective tax rate (ETR), which is calculated by dividing the total tax expenses by the earnings before taxes (EBT). The findings show that companies audited by non-Big4 firms are more aggressive than those audited by Big4 firms. As for moving from Big4 to non-Big4 firms, the results are not sufficiently clear to state whether companies become more or less tax aggressive.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness, Big4, Independent audit

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Hartmann, Carla, Tax Aggressiveness and Big4 Audit Firms (May 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3599215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3599215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R D M Araújo , P A Filho
Análise da Relação entre o Nível de Posted: 2017
Agressividade Fiscal e a Rentabilidade das Empresas da BM&FBovespa e NYSE. Anais da Conferência Anpcont , volume 11 Posted: 2018-02-20
Crossref
R A M Araújo , L M S Santos , P A M Leite Filho , R P B Câmara
Análise Comparativa da Agressividade Fiscal das Empresas Listadas na BM&FBOVESPA e na NYSE Posted: 2016
Anais Da Conferência , Anpcont , Ribeirão Preto
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,659
RANK
232,542
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies