Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. Firm Acquisitions of Domestic and Foreign Targets

50 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020

T. J. Atwood

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Jimmy Downes

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Jodi Henley

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mollie Mathis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 14, 2020

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) eliminated disincentives for U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) to repatriate foreign subsidiaries’ earnings, but the TCJA included additional provisions that will impact U.S. firms’ acquisition decisions. We find that both the likelihood and number of domestic and foreign acquisition announcements made by U.S. firms decreased on average after the TCJA but increased with repatriation taxes that U.S. MNCs faced prior to the TCJA. This effect is stronger for those MNCs that held larger amounts of foreign cash prior to the TCJA. The post-TCJA increase in foreign target acquisitions is driven by MNCs that are more likely to be subject to the global intangible low-tax income (GILTI) provisions after the TCJA. Our results suggest that the GILTI provisions introduced a contradictory incentive for U.S. MNCs with higher returns from intangible assets to investment in foreign target firms with lower returns on tangible property.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Foreign and Domestic Acquisitions, Global intangible low-tax income

JEL Classification: F23, G31, G38, H25, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Atwood, T. J. and Downes, Jimmy and Henley, Jodi and Mathis, Mollie, The Impact of U.S. Tax Reform on U.S. Firm Acquisitions of Domestic and Foreign Targets (May 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3600978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3600978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M L Banyi , E A Dyl , K M Kahle
Errors in estimating share repurchases
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 460 - 474 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Bird , A Edwards , T Shevlin
Does U.S. foreign earnings lockout advantage foreign acquirers?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 64 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Blouin , L Krull
Bringing it home: A study of the incentives surrounding the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,537
RANK
99,374
11 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies