Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Indemnification and Unrecognized Tax Benefits in Mergers and Acquisitions

Hopkins, P. L. (2024). Tax Indemnification and Unrecognized Tax Benefits in Mergers and Acquisitions. Journal of the American Taxation Association, 1-23. DOI 10.2308/JATA-2022-035

Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 7 Sep 2023

Patrick Hopkins

Texas Christian University

Date Written: May 3, 2023

Abstract

Tax indemnification transfers the risk of potential tax settlements from a taxpayer to an external party. Current accounting standards require firms to reflect unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) even when the underlying tax position has indemnification. Practitioners suggest that financial statement disclosures regarding tax indemnification are necessary to allow users to assess tax risk adequately. However, acquirers rarely disclose tax indemnification arrangements from merger and acquisition (M&A) contracts. Evidence suggests that tax indemnification attenuates the positive association between UTBs and future tax cash outflows. Moreover, results are consistent with indemnification agreements resulting in minimal settlements. Because of the effect that removing accounts associated with lapsed indemnification agreements has on effective tax rates and the attenuating effect that indemnification has on UTB’s association with future tax cash outflows, the findings could be of interest to the Financial Accounting Standards Board regarding their income tax disclosure project.

Keywords: income tax reporting, business combinations, unrecognized tax benefits, tax indemnification.

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick, Tax Indemnification and Unrecognized Tax Benefits in Mergers and Acquisitions (May 3, 2023). Hopkins, P. L. (2024). Tax Indemnification and Unrecognized Tax Benefits in Mergers and Acquisitions. Journal of the American Taxation Association, 1-23. DOI 10.2308/JATA-2022-035, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3605560
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
534
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies