Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Differences and Global Supply Chain Architecture

37 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Michael Kopel

University of Graz

Clemens Löffler

University of Applied Sciences for Management and Communication (FHWien der WKW)

Date Written: May 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the influence of tax rate differences and international transfer pricing regulations on the profit-maximizing supply chain structure of a multinational firm (MNF). We show how an MNF that sells its products in multiple markets and manufactures multiple inputs used for its own production can optimize its tax strategy by jointly selecting its transfer pricing approach and the location of the manufacturing divisions. The optimal choice of transfer pricing and supply chain structure balances the gains from locating input production in the low-tax country to enable profit-shifting with the losses that occur due to distorted quantity choices in the high-tax country. First, in contrast to existing literature, we find that the MNF should always fully exploit its profit-shifting opportunities by selecting the maximum admissible arm's length transfer price for international transactions. Second, for products that use multiple complementary inputs there is a close connection between the national and international transfer prices: the MNF's trade-off between the gains or losses can be moderated by setting an adjusted domestic transfer price for transactions between the divisions in the high-tax country. Third and finally, we also point out circumstances where the MNF should use the market price for a base product sold on an external market as an internal arm's length standard.

Keywords: MNF's location strategy, External CUP, Internal CUP, Tax optimization, Transfer pricing

Suggested Citation:

Kopel, Michael and Löffler, Clemens, Tax Differences and Global Supply Chain Architecture (May 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3607721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
E Adida , N Bakshi , V Demiguel
Supplier capacity and intermediary profits: Can less be more? , volume 25 , p. 630 - 646 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Alexander , A D Vito , Jacob , M
Corporate tax reforms and tax-motivated profit shifting: evidence from the EU
Accounting and Business Research , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Arya , C Löffler , B Mittendorf , T Pfeiffer
The middleman as a panacea for supply chain coordination problems
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 240 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 400 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf , D.-H Yoon
Friction in related-party trade when a rival is also a customer
Management Science , volume 54 , issue 11 , p. 1850 - 1860 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
371,877
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies