Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Avoiding Taxes: Banks' Use of Internal Debt

37 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2020

Franz Reiter

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Dominika Langenmayr

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Svea Holtmann

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 22, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates how multinational banks use internal debt to shift profits to low-taxed affiliates. Using regulatory data on multinational banks headquartered in Germany, we show that banks use this tax avoidance channel more aggressively than non-financial multinationals do. We find that a ten percentage points higher corporate tax rate increases the internal net debt ratio by 5.7 percentage points, corresponding to a 20% increase at the mean. Our study also takes into account the existence of conduit entities, which simply pass through financial flows. If conduit entities are systematically located in low-tax countries, previous studies may have underestimated the extent of debt shifting.

Keywords: Profit Shifting, Internal Debt, Multinational Banks, Taxation

JEL Classification: H25, G21, F23

Suggested Citation:

Reiter, Franz and Langenmayr, Dominika and Langenmayr, Dominika and Holtmann, Svea, Avoiding Taxes: Banks' Use of Internal Debt (May 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3609882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3609882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2017
Crossref
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision in 180 countries from 1999 to 2011
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 5 , p. 111 - 219 Posted: 2013
Crossref
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards Posted: 2006
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Sarah Godar , Petr Janský
Corporate profit misalignment: evidence from German headquarter companies and their foreign affiliates
Post-Communist Economies , volume 33 , issue 6 , p. 726 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
RANK
514,796
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies