Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Initial Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-06

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3612783

Posted: 28 May 2020 Last revised: 7 Feb 2023

Harald Amberger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: February 6, 2023

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 marked a significant change in U.S. domestic and international tax policy, altering incentives for U.S. firms to own foreign assets. We examine the initial response of U.S. firms’ foreign acquisition patterns to the TCJA’s key reform provisions. We find a significant overall decrease in the probability that a foreign target is acquired by a U.S. firm after the reform, suggesting that the net effect of the TCJA was to reduce acquisitions abroad. Cross-sectional variation across target and acquirer characteristics points to the elimination of the repatriation tax and the TCJA’s global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) regime as critically influencing cross-border acquisitions by U.S. firms. Specifically, U.S. acquirers with little foreign presence prior to the TCJA are more likely to acquire a foreign target, while U.S. acquirers are less likely to acquire profitable targets in low-tax countries. Results from our empirical analyses are consistent with the TCJA prompting fewer but more value-enhancing, less tax-motivated foreign acquisitions by U.S. firms.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Mergers and Acquisitions, Investment, Repatriation Tax, GILTI, FDII

JEL Classification: G34, H25, H32, K34, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amberger, Harald Johannes and Robinson, Leslie, The Initial Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions (February 6, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-06, Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3612783, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3612783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3612783
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,856
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies