Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Attitude, Subjective Norms, Perceived Behavioral Control on Tax Compliance in Jordan: The Moderating Effect of Costums Tax

INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENTIFIC & TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH , 2020

6 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2020

Murad Al zaqeba

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Mosab AL-Rashdan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Tax compliance is one of the most critical issues for all countries. In Jordan, the high-income individual taxpayers such as medical doctors, engineers, and lawyers have low tax compliance rate. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the factors that affect the tax compliance behavior (TCB) of high-income individual taxpayers in Jordan. This study extends the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) with custom tax. The population of this study is the high-income individual taxpayers working as medical doctors, engineers, and lawyers in Jordan. A stratified random sampling technique was used in this study. A total of 485 complete and usable responses were collected using a questionnaire survey. The data was analyzed using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) and Smart Partial Least Square (PLS). The findings showed that attitude, PBC (PBC) and subjective norms (SN) are important predictors of behavioral intention (BI). BI affected positively the TCB. In addition, the BI mediated partially the effect of PBC on TCB. Customs tax moderated negatively the effect of BI on TCB. Tax authorities are suggested to reduce the custom tax and increase the attitude, SN and PBC of the professional taxpayers.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB), Customs Tax, Structural Equation Modeling (SEM).

Suggested Citation:

Al zaqeba, Murad and AL-Rashdan, Mosab Tayseer, The Effect of Attitude, Subjective Norms, Perceived Behavioral Control on Tax Compliance in Jordan: The Moderating Effect of Costums Tax (2020). INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SCIENTIFIC & TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH , 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3614298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Alon , A M Hageman
The Impact of Corruption on Firm Tax Compliance in Transition Economies: Whom Do You Trust?
J. Bus. Ethics Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Muslichah , Ramadania
The Effect of Tax Simplification on Taxpayers' Compliance Behavior: Religiosity as Moderating Variable,‖ J. Keuang. dan Perbank Posted: 2015
Crossref
L Castro , C Scartascini
J. Econ. Behav. Organ , volume 116 , p. 65 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Jimenez , G S Iyer
Tax compliance in a social setting: The influence of social norms, trust in government, and perceived fairness on taxpayer compliance
Adv. Account , volume 34 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
966
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,816
RANK
54,933
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies