Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Enforcement Spillovers – Evidence from South Africa

36 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 4 Oct 2023

Collen Lediga

Ruhr University of Bochum

Nadine Riedel

University of Münster

Kristina Strohmaier

University of Tübingen

Date Written: October 4, 2023

Abstract

Taxpayer audits are the prime instrument to combat tax evasion. Whether their deterrence effect extends beyond audited taxpayers is largely unclear, however. Drawing on the universe of business tax audits and corporate income tax returns for South Africa, we test for audit spillovers in firm networks. The results suggest that audits improve the tax reporting of unaudited businesses in the same neighborhood as the targeted firm. On average, firms’ tax liability increases by 1.5% when a fellow business in close geographic proximity is audited. The estimate translates into sizable aggregate revenue gains as audited firms are connected to several neighboring businesses. Outside local neighborhoods, audit spillovers are limited to firms operating in the same industry or relying on the same tax preparer. The findings carry important implications for the design of tax enforcement systems.

Suggested Citation:

Lediga, Collen and Riedel, Nadine and Strohmaier, Kristina, Tax Enforcement Spillovers – Evidence from South Africa (October 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3616817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3616817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The Dynamic Effects of Tax Audits
Review of Economics and Statistics Posted: 2021
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Changing the Social Norm of Tax Compliance by Voting
Kyklos , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 171 Posted: 1999
A L Andrei , K Comer , M Koehler
An Agent-based Model of Network Effects on Tax Compliance and Evasion
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 40 , p. 119 - 133 Posted: 2014
Load more
3 Citations
Christos Kotsogiannis , Luca Salvadori , John Karangwa , Theonille Mukamana
Do tax audits have a dynamic impact? Evidence from corporate income tax administrative data
Journal of Development Economics , volume 170 , p. 103292 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Collen Lediga , Nadine Riedel , Kristina Strohmaier
What you do (not) get when expanding the net - Evidence from forced taxpayer registrations in South Africa
Journal of Development Economics , volume 172 , p. 103388 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Ho Fai Chan , Katharina Gangl , Mohammad Wangsit Supriyadi , Benno Torgler
The effects of increased monitoring on high wealth individuals: Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment in Indonesia
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 215 , p. 244 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,867
RANK
227,633
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies