Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Implications of Socially Responsible Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Electricity Industry

57 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2020 Last revised: 23 Oct 2020

Kerry Inger

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 22, 2020

Abstract

Prior literature suggests that firms may bear reputational costs associated with corporate tax avoidance, which could in turn reduce the net present value of firms’ tax planning strategies. Other research indicates that investors perceive corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities and tax avoidance as inconsistent with each other when engaged in concurrently. However, these studies do not consider the fact that firms may have opportunities to avoid tax in socially responsible ways. We investigate the equity valuation implications of one form of socially responsible tax avoidance: claiming the renewable electricity production tax credit (PTC). We predict and find that investors more positively value tax savings generated from PTCs compared to other forms of corporate tax avoidance. Additionally, consistent with the role that CSR can play in enhancing a firm’s reputational capital, we find evidence of a spillover effect in which investors more positively value other sources of tax avoidance to the extent the firm also reduces its taxes in a socially responsible way.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance, Effective Tax Rates, Corporate Social Responsibility, Firm Value, Renewable Electricity Production Tax Credits, Electricity Industry

JEL Classification: H25, H26, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Inger, Kerry and Stekelberg, James, Valuation Implications of Socially Responsible Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Electricity Industry (October 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3619486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3619486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
C R Austin , R Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P C Godfrey
The relationship between corporate philanthropy and shareholder wealth: A risk management perspective
Academy of Management Review , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 777 - 798 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Godfrey , C Merrill , J Hansen
The relationship between corporate social responsibility and shareholder value: An empirical test of the risk management hypothesis
Strategic Management Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 445 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Graham , M Hanlon , T Shevlin , N Shroff
Incentives for tax planning and avoidance: Evidence from the field
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 991 - 1023 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,527
RANK
322,924
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies