Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on the Tax Burdens of U.S. Domestic and Multinational Corporations

45 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2020

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 5, 2020

Abstract

We quantify the net effect of recent U.S. tax reform on the tax rates of public U.S. corporations and find they decreased by 7.5 to 11.4 percentage points on average following tax reform. Further, we separately examine the effect of tax reform on purely domestic firms and multinational firms because some key provisions only affect multinational firms. We find both sets of firms benefited from tax reform, although domestics benefited the most. We also find the entirety of multinational tax savings stemmed from tax savings on their domestic operations, not as a result of more favorable taxation of international income. We also find no changes in the federal tax burden on foreign income for firms most likely to be subject to the new anti-abuse provisions. Overall, our findings suggest that despite the recent overhaul in international taxation, the federal tax burden on the foreign earnings of U.S. corporations appears to have been largely unaffected.

Keywords: corporate taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Vernon, Mary, The Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on the Tax Burdens of U.S. Domestic and Multinational Corporations (June 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3620102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3620102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A J Auerbach
Measuring the effects of corporate tax cuts
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 97 - 120 Posted: 2018
S Barrios , H Huizinga , L Laeven , G Nicodeme
International taxation and multinational firm location decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , issue 11-12 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
R Carrizosa , F B Gaertner , D Lynch
Debt and taxes? The effect of TCJA interest limitations on capital structure Posted: 2021
K A Clausing
Taxing multinational companies in the 21st Century Posted: 2020
Load more
8 Citations
Michael Overesch , Max Pflitsch
Cross-border Effects of a Major Tax Reform - Evidence from the European Stock Market
46 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2019 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Harald J. Amberger , Leslie Robinson
The initial effect of U.S. tax reform on foreign acquisitions
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
Crossref
Harald Johannes Amberger , Leslie Robinson
The Initial Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-06, Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 3612783 · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Last revised: 7 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mindy Herzfeld
Designing international tax reform: lessons from TCJA
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1163 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,082
RANK
29,551
8 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies