Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does it Matter Who Remits?: Evidence from U.S. States' Voluntary Collection Agreements

55 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

Yeliz Kacamak

Bogazici University - Department of Economics

Tejaswi Velayudhan

University of California, Irvine

Eleanor Wilking

Cornell University - Law School; NYU Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

The South Dakota vs. Wayfair (2018) Supreme Court decision changed a long-standing difference in the way U.S. sales tax administrations treated online and brick-and-mortar commerce. Online retailers now have to remit sales taxes just like their brick-and-mortar counterparts in most states. Despite the attention this decision received, we know little about how shifting the responsibility to remit will affect the tax system. Using states' staggered adoption of Voluntary Collection Agreements (VCAs) which committed large online retailers to remit taxes prior to the Wayfair decision, we find that the increase in compliance resulting from these arrangements was almost fully passed-through to consumers via higher tax-inclusive prices. Consumers also reduced their online expenditures. However, we do not find strong evidence of an impact on the elasticity of the tax base. These results suggest that remittance rule changes such as the Wayfair decision are successful in stemming sales tax base erosion and that the burden of increased enforcement is mainly borne by consumers.

Keywords: Tax evasion, Tax remittance, Online commerce, Sales tax, Tax administration

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Kacamak, Yeliz and Velayudhan, Tejaswi and Wilking, Eleanor, Does it Matter Who Remits?: Evidence from U.S. States' Voluntary Collection Agreements (June 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3624901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3624901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
1: Date of Implementation of Voluntary Collection Agreements/ Legislation Posted: 2008
W B Afonso
The impact of the amazon tax on local sales tax revenue in urban and rural jurisdictions
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 68 - 90 Posted: 2019
Crossref
David R. Agrawal , David E. Wildasin
Sales Taxation, Spatial Agglomeration, and the Internet
Pages: 67 Posted: 31 Jul 2017 Last revised: 16 Aug 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S R Baker , S Johnson , L Kueng
Shopping for lower sales tax rates Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,382
RANK
303,670
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies