Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Labor Income Taxation in Poland - the Case of High Income Earners

19 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020

Maciej Konrad Dudek

University of Michigan, Department of Economics

Date Written: June 15, 2020

Abstract

In this paper we present solutions to the optimal taxation problem in Poland in the case of high income earners. We characterize the actual data provided by the Polish Tax Authority and show that it is thick-tailed in the upper end of the distribution. Specifically, we show that income distribution in Poland can be approximated with a Pareto distribution with parameter equal to 3:44; which makes the Saez’s formula applicable. We show that the value of the optimal marginal tax rates in Poland ranges between 16% and 60% for high income earners depending on the value of the elasticity with respect to the wage. Moreover, we show that the value of the optimal marginal tax rate for high income earners can be close 60% when one accepts - an empirically viable - relatively low value of the elasticity of labor supply with respect to the wage.

Suggested Citation:

Dudek, Maciej Konrad, Optimal Labor Income Taxation in Poland - the Case of High Income Earners (June 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3626813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3626813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Anthony Atkinson , Thomas Piketty , Emmanuel Saez
Top Incomes in the Long-Run of History
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 71 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Andrew Berg , Jonathan D Ostry , Charalambos G Tsangarides
Redistribution Inequality and Growth Posted: 2014
Olivier Bargain , Christian Orsini
Labor Supply Elasticities in Europe and the USA
IZA DP Np , volume 5820 Posted: 2011
Peter Diamond
Optimal Income Taxation: An Example with a U-Shaped Pattern for the Optimal Marginal Rates
American Economic Review , volume 88 , p. 83 - 95 Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Maciej Konrad Dudek
Optimal Taxation in Poland - the CARA Case
17 Pages · Posted: 29 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 18
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
817
RANK
759,919
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies