Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring Incentives and Tax Planning – Evidence from State-Owned Enterprises

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-08

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper

40 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2020 Last revised: 12 Sep 2023

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

David M. P. Samuel

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 2023

Abstract

This study provides new evidence on the association of state ownership and tax planning by showing that a state owner’s monitoring incentives affect a firm’s tax planning. Using the setting of a developed market economy, Germany, we distinguish between state owners that directly benefit from state-owned enterprises’ (SOEs’) income tax payments and those that do not. Our results indicate that state ownership is not associated with less tax planning unless the state owner directly benefits from higher tax payments. These results are robust to various specifications and suggest that shareholders’ monitoring incentives are a determinant of a firm’s tax planning activities.

Keywords: tax avoidance, monitoring, ownership Structure, state owned enterprises

JEL Classification: G30, G32, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Samuel, David, Monitoring Incentives and Tax Planning – Evidence from State-Owned Enterprises (September 2023). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-08, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3632938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home Country Tax System Characteristics and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Why Does China Have a State-Oriented Attitude Towards Tax Incentives? Austaxpolicy: The Tax and Transfer Policy Blog Posted: 2019-05-08
Load more
1 Citations
Goranka Knežević , Vladimir Ristanović , Vladan Pavlović
Determinants of effective tax rates of public enterprises as an indication of tax avoidance on profit tax
Pravo - teorija i praksa , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 76 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,932
RANK
162,121
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies