Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Value-Added Tax to Improve Market Fairness

24 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2020

Veryzhenko Iryna

Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers

Date Written: June 20, 2020

Abstract

Promotion of both market fairness and efficiency has long been a goal of securities market regulators worldwide. While previous studies mostly focused on market efficiency, our paper proposes tools to improve market fairness. We define market fairness as the ability of a market structure and its regulatory framework to guarantee unimpeded competition while curbing excessive speculation and market manipulation. Such behaviors undermine the quality of financial markets in the sense that they cause volatility and lead to instability. To encourage value generation and improve market quality, we advance a graduated Non-Value-Added Tax. The proposed tax is implemented in a simulation-based model whereby a profitable transaction is taxed at the higher rate if it does not enhance efficiency measured by deviation from fundamentals. When an agent locks in profit not supported by fundamentals but driven by trend-following strategies, the generated profit is taxed at graduate rates under the Non-Value-Added Tax regime. Unlike existing Financial Transaction Taxes, the Non-Value-Added Tax is levied on profit and not on price. More concretely, our findings show that this tool encourages profitable trades that add-value to the market and discourages valueless profit making. It significantly curtails volatility, and prevents the occurrence of extreme market events like bubbles and crashes.

Keywords: {market fairness, market regulation, Non-Value-Added tax, high-frequency trading, bubbles and crashes, efficiency

JEL Classification: G14;D84;D85;E47;I31

Suggested Citation:

Iryna, Veryzhenko, Non-Value-Added Tax to Improve Market Fairness (June 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3635358 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3635358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Amf
Comportements des traders à haute frequence sur Euronext Paris. Rapport, Autorité des Marchés Financiers Posted: 2017
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Effects of a new york state stock transaction tax Posted: 2003
O Ashenfelter , D Card
Using the longitudinal structure of earnings to estimate the effect of training programs
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 67 , p. 648 - 660 Posted: 1985
Crossref
B Baltagi , D Li , Q Li
Transaction tax and stock market behavior: Evidence from an emerging market
Empirical Economics , volume 31 , p. 393 - 408 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
726
RANK
799,009
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies