Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Tax Compliance Without Increasing Revenue: Evidence from Population-Wide Randomized Controlled Trials in Papua New Guinea

IZA Discussion Paper No. 13407

46 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Christopher Hoy

World Bank

Luke McKenzie

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Mathias Sinning

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper studies the impact of "nudges" on taxpayers with varying tax compliance histories in Papua New Guinea. We present the results from two population-wide randomized controlled trials in a setting that is characterized by low compliance rates and a lack of effective enforcement. We test the impact of text messages, flyers and emails that remind taxpayers of declaration due dates and provide information about the public benefits from paying tax. We find that the treatments increased the number of tax declarations filed without increasing the amount of tax paid because the taxpayers who responded to the nudges were largely exempt from paying tax. This result is consistent across tax types, communication channels and time periods. We also find that the treatments had no impact on previously non-filing taxpayers. Collectively, our results indicate that taxpayers who face the lowest cost from complying are most likely to respond to a nudge.

Keywords: field experiments, behavioral economics, tax compliance

JEL Classification: C93, D91, H2, H20, O1, O17

Suggested Citation:

Hoy, Christopher and McKenzie, Luke and Sinning, Mathias, Improving Tax Compliance Without Increasing Revenue: Evidence from Population-Wide Randomized Controlled Trials in Papua New Guinea. IZA Discussion Paper No. 13407, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
A Antinyan , Z Asatryan
Nudging for Tax Compliance: A Meta-Analysis
ZEW Discussion Posted: 2019
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
M Bergolo , R Ceni , G Cruces , M Giaccobasso , R Perez-Truglia
Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment
IZA Discussion Papers 12335 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
375,525
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies