Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Corporate Taxation on the Financial Leverage of Czech, Polish and Russian Companies

Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 61-70 (2019)

10 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2020

Irena Jindrichovska

University of Wales, Aberystwyth - School of Management and Business

Vyacheslav Moskalchuk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This article aims to compare and contrast the available empirical evidence concerning the capital structure of Polish, Czech and Russian companies. This is an intriguing research area due to the fact that the Czech and Polish economies began their transition to the market economy contemporaneously with Russia, and so along with other cultural and historical parallels, the data is comparable.

We compare data from a selection of large companies from the selected territories and investigate whether effective tax rate is significant determinant of capital structure. The selected sample is comprised of 69 companies (50 from Russia, 9 from Poland, and 10 from Czech Republic), using data over a period of fourteen years. We perform a regression analysis and interpret the results using theoretical knowledge as articulated in the academic literature. The dependent variable in all tested regressions is financial leverage, calculated as the ratio of the sum of short-term and long-term debts to the sum of short-term and long-term assets. Other variables evaluated include interest coverage ratio, the level of company tangibility, and the cost of debt. This set of input values was uploaded from the Bloomberg database.

Our results indicate that taxation does have determining effect on the choice of a certain level of leverage. Moreover, the effective tax rate represents the most important factor in determining the model of capital structure utilised by large companies in each country studied. We establish the dependence of capital structure models on the level of corporate tax applied in each country and identify a set of additional determinants which play a significant role.

This paper’s novelty may be summarised as representing an advanced understanding of specific aspects of influence of the corporate taxation on the capital structure of companies in Russia and other economies of the former Eastern Bloc. This paper shines a new light on the subject area by extending the duration of the studied data beyond previous research, to fourteen years. As such, in this paper we present a comparitive dynamic which may be mapped on to other similar comparitive studies. Our results will be of interest in professionals and academics who are involved in the fields of taxation, debt and equity in Eastern Europe and Russia. The schema utilised here may be applied in a similar manner to examine the development of similar economies in Eastern Europe and further afield.

Keywords: financial leverage (leverage); capital structure; corporate taxation; debt financing of projects; effective tax rate; interest coverage ratio; company materiality level; cost of debt; interest coverage level; pooled-regression; between-regression; fixed effects within-regression; random effects with

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Jindrichovska, Irena and Moskalchuk, Vyacheslav, Influence of Corporate Taxation on the Financial Leverage of Czech, Polish and Russian Companies (2019). Journal of Corporate Finance Research, Vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 61-70 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3637530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
И В Ивашковская , П В Макаров
Действуют ли классические концепции выбора структуры капитала на развивающихся рынках? Эмпириче-ский анализ компаний Восточной и Центральной Европы. Электронный журнал «Корпоративные финансы» , volume 3 , p. 47 - 62 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A J Auerbach
Real Determinants of Corporate Leverage Posted: 1985
Crossref
L Chen
The determinants of capital structure: the evidence from the Dutch panel data Posted: 1998
A J Chevalier
Capital Structure and ProductMarket Competition: Empirical Evidence from the Supermarket Industry Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
812
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies