Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Corporations on Financial Statement Earnings: Current Proposals, Long-Standing Concerns

32 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2020

Mindy Herzfeld

University of Florida Levin College of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2020

Abstract

Book-tax differences have existed for as long as the corporate income tax. And for almost as long, there have been regular efforts to introduce greater conformity between the two. Over the past four decades, proposals to substitute (in whole or in part) a tax base that relies on profit as reported in financial statements for the legislatively enacted corporate tax base have been regularly introduced. These proposals are generally based on the assumption that taxing book income provides a simpler, fairer and more efficient way to tax corporate income. The proposals also assume that taxing book income permits less opportunity for corporate tax avoidance.

Such efforts for parity between book and tax income – also referred to as book-tax conformity – have regularly failed to gain traction. Nonetheless, the idea is again rearing its head both in the international and domestic spheres. In the international arena, two proposals introduced by the OECD for taxing the digitalized economy relied to a greater or lesser extent on a tax base computed from multinationals’ consolidated financial accounts economy (OECD 2019a,b). Domestically, at least three leading Democratic presidential candidates for the 2020 election proposed a minimum tax on corporate profits as computed from financial statements, including former Vice President Joe Biden.

The resurgence of interest in the use of financial statement profits as an alternative tax base prompts a reexamination of the history of similar prior proposals, the critiques levied against them, and the reasons for their lack of success. Careful consideration of the problems highlighted by those who have earlier delved into the subject is due, in order to determine whether its possible to address concerns previously raised before moving forward with a plan to tax multinationals based on financial statement profits. Or reconsideration of these concerns may make clear that the detriments outweigh the perceived benefits of these proposals.

Part I of this paper outlines the history of prior proposals for book tax conformity. Part II reviews more recent proposals for taxing multinationals based on financial statement profits both domestically and internationally. Part III highlights concerns that have been raised, both about older and more recent proposals. Part IV concludes with a consideration of the extent to which concerns raised in other contexts remain valid for proposals made in 2019, and whether it may be possible to modify these proposals to adequately address the problems.

Suggested Citation:

Herzfeld, Mindy, Taxing Corporations on Financial Statement Earnings: Current Proposals, Long-Standing Concerns (June 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639178 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3639178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
DRAFT JUNE 22, 2020 PLEASE DO NOT CITE WITHOUT AUHOR'S PERMISSION
Crossref
Ashiq Ali , Lee-Seok Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T J Atwood , Michael S Drake , Linda A Myers
Book-Tax Conformity, Earnings Persistence and the Association between Earnings and Future Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 136 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Boynton , P Dobbins , G Plesko
Earnings management and the corporate alternative minimum tax
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 131 - 153 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,456
RANK
155,588
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies