Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Elasticity of Financial Statement Income: Implications for Current Reform Proposals

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No.912

22 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2020 Last revised: 31 Oct 2024

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

Current reform proposals in international and corporate tax (most notably the OECD’s GloBE proposal) envisage taxing financial statement income. This paper develops a conceptual framework – based on the literature on the elasticity of taxable income – for the welfare analysis of such proposals, and discusses the available evidence on the tax elasticity of financial statement income. The central conclusion is that the most relevant evidence suggests a large responsiveness of financial statement income to taxes (and hence, albeit with significant limitations and caveats, arguably a large deadweight loss). The paper also highlights the need for more evidence on this question.

Keywords: International taxation; Multinational firms; Financial statement income; Book-tax conformity

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, The Tax Elasticity of Financial Statement Income: Implications for Current Reform Proposals (June 30, 2020). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No.912, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3642049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3642049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Formula Apportionment: Is it Better Than the Current System and Are There Better Alternatives?
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 1184 Posted: 2010
Bradley Blaylock , Fabio Gaertner , Terry Shevlin
The Association Between Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings management
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 141 - 172 Posted: 2015
Charles E Boynton , S Paul , George A Dobbins , Plesko
Earnings Management and the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 131 - 153 Posted: 1992
Won W Choi , D Jeffrey , Jacob K Gramlich , Thomas
Potential Errors in Detecting Earnings Management: Reexamining Studies Investigating the AMT of 1986
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 613 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,692
RANK
159,889
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies