Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selfish Sharing? The Impact of the Sharing Economy on Tax Reporting Honesty

Berger, L., Guo, L. & King, T. Selfish Sharing? The Impact of the Sharing Economy on Tax Reporting Honesty. J Bus Ethics (2020). Doi 10.1007/s10551-019-04409-z

55 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2020

Leslie Berger

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Lan Guo

Wilfrid Laurier University

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

In the last decade, advances in technology have significantly disrupted the way firms provide goods and services. At the forefront of this technological disruption is the sharing economy, where individuals earn income by providing services or sharing assets through peer-to-peer (P2P) platforms. With global revenues in the sharing economy projected to increase substantially in the next decade, income from this economy will continue to be an important source of tax revenues for governments around the world. However, sceptics argue that the sharing economy inherently lends itself to dishonest reporting of taxable income. We employ an online experiment, using 746 taxpayers, to observe whether the prosocial benefits often promoted by P2P platforms reduce honest reporting of taxable sharing economy income. Consistent with moral licensing theory, we find that earning income from a prosocial-oriented P2P platform liberates taxpayers to dishonestly report their sharing economy income, and this result is fully driven by taxpayers whose personal values are incongruent with values promoted by the P2P platform. Our paper contributes to the limited but growing research on the sharing economy and its implications for ethical decisions. It also adds to the moral licensing literature by identifying value congruency as an important
moderator for moral licensing effect.

Keywords: Sharing economy, Tax reporting honesty, Moral self-licensing, Prosocial, Value congruence

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Leslie and Guo, Lan and King, Tisha, Selfish Sharing? The Impact of the Sharing Economy on Tax Reporting Honesty (January 1, 2020). Berger, L., Guo, L. & King, T. Selfish Sharing? The Impact of the Sharing Economy on Tax Reporting Honesty. J Bus Ethics (2020). Doi 10.1007/s10551-019-04409-z, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
H Adams
Behavioural challenge-HMRC research into SMEs and the Sharing Economy. BDO United Kingdom Posted: 2018
Airbnb
Host an experience on Airbnb Posted: 2019-02
Airbnb
Airbnb: Helping travel grow greener Posted: 2017-03-10
Airbnb
Sharing more about the Technology that powers Airbnb Posted: 2018-03-23
Load more
2 Citations
Tisha King , Jonathan Farrar
To Punish or Not to Punish? The Impact of Tax Fraud Punishment on Observers’ Tax Compliance (Forthcoming in Journal of Business Ethics https://rdcu.be/cHfDk)
53 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 22 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 390
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fabio Motoki , Lucia Milena Murgia , Bruno Funchal
The Power and Peril of Nudging Non-Compliant Firms: A Field Experiment on Tax Compliance
JPP-D-24-00138 · 39 Pages · Posted: 30 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
RANK
649,413
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies