Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contribution and Distribution Flexibility and Tax Pass-Through Entities

Florida Law Review, Vol. 23, No. 1, 2019: 349-431

46 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2020

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 4, 2019

Abstract

The way jurisdictions design their tax systems for business operations can be a contentious issue, as they try to balance the competing goals of raising sufficient tax revenue without unduly inhibiting commercial investment and activities. Such tax design can be particularly important for small and medium enterprises, which due to their size, inherent characteristics, and resources can struggle with tax compliance. Those attributes can also make business tax regressive. A number of countries around the world have adopted business entities that utilize corporate characteristics, such as liability protection for members and separate legal entity status, but also have the characteristics of tax pass-through, whose members are assessed tax liability directly based on the income and losses of the pass-through entity. Examples include limited liability partnerships (LLPs) in the United Kingdom, look-through companies in New Zealand, and limited liability companies (LLCs) in the United States of America.

In some countries these tax pass-through entities have been extremely popular, which in part has been attributed to the flexibility members can benefit from with respect to governance and how contributions and subsequent distributions can be facilitated. This flexibility is arguably a desired commercial feature of business entities. However, such flexibility with contributions and distributions is seen as a potential risk to tax revenue, because there is concern that through artificial engineering the overall tax burden can be lowered. This has led to tax integrity measures, which by their very nature can potentially restrict flexibility.

For example, LLCs and their members are subject to greater and potentially more complex rules when it comes to measuring the cost basis of their membership interests; this then influences members’ ability to utilize allocated losses and the tax treatment of distributions. The flexibility of contributions and distributions for LLPs in the United Kingdom has also raised concerns with the introduction of tax integrity measures. By comparison, the US' older tax pass-through entity, the S Corporation, with only one class of membership interest, has fewer integrity rules governing allocations.

This Article will critically assess how the flexibility of contributions and distributions by these tax pass-through entities affects the tax rules that apply to the allocations and distributions to their members. Here, we argue that the flexibility of contributions and distributions appears to be a key characteristic demanded by business entities both for commercial and tax reasons. However, investors need to be cognitive of the inherent complexity and costs that this flexibility may entail. Additionally, it is important for governments and revenue authorities not to unduly restrict flexibility with complex tax integrity rules; it is a fine balance between commercial and revenue needs. Firstly, the concept of tax pass-through entities is discussed, with particular attention on their utilization in the United States and the United Kingdom. This is followed by a description of why contribution and distribution flexibility are a desired feature for business entities and how this can be facilitated with LLCs and LLPs. The Article then critically analyzes the tax rules that apply to LLCs and LLPs due to their allocation and distribution flexibility, which will include comparisons to the rules for S Corporations. This analysis will consider relevant statutes, available case law, and regulatory rulings. This is followed by recommendations and limitations. It will be argued that there needs to be greater recognition of the need for flexibility, and tax rules should not adversely impact this characteristic.

Keywords: Distribution, Small business, tax, integrity, compliance, growth

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Borden, Bradley T., Contribution and Distribution Flexibility and Tax Pass-Through Entities (December 4, 2019). Florida Law Review, Vol. 23, No. 1, 2019: 349-431, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3649903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
The exclusion of the real estate industry may be better understood through lobbying, rather than formulaic tax policy. Indeed, this carve out means that it is possible for the LLC's assets to be borrowed against on a non-recourse basis, which increases the membership cost basis, so that the borrowed funds can be distributed out to members tax free. Such a borrowing and distribution by an S Corporation would result in an assessable distribution to members, as S Corporation membership basis is not increased by borrowings of the S Corporation. See Altieri & Cenker, supra note 95. Due to the carve out provided to the real estate industry in the United States, it may be the case that the tax system is funding poor economic investments. This can be further aggravated by the fact that if rollovers are utilized and the assets are held until death, then the inheritors can have a step up in value, resulting in little or no tax ever being paid. § 1014(a). 265. Limited Liability Partnerships Act
Limited Liability Partnerships Regulations , volume 465 Posted: 1090
A Michiel , Hoozemans
If the notional salary to a member causes some LLP members to have a loss, when previously the LLP was profitable then there can be adjustments. Where the LLP as a whole makes a profit (as adjusted for tax purposes), but, after the allocation of notional salaries the result is that an individual member makes a loss, the loss-making member cannot claim tax relief for the loss and are given statutory effect for 2005-06 onwards
The Taxation of Income Derived by a Netherlands, German and US Investor Through a UK Limited Liability Partnership , volume 294 Posted: 1993
David Smailes &amp; Rebecca , Benneyworth , Tolley&apos;s Income , Tax
The assignment by a partner of part of his share in the partnership was ineffective for the purpose of displacing his liability to income tax on that part of his share of partnership profits Posted: 2019
David Collison , &amp; John Tiley , Uk , Guide
HM REVENUE & CUSTOMS, supra note 119, ¶ 4. The disposal is treated as made for a consideration equal to the member's corporate gains tax cost, and therefore there will be no chargeable gain or allowable loss at this point. Id. 281. It is arguable that streaming can be perceived as infringing upon the integrity of a tax system because it facilitates the exploitation of losses and tax preferences. An alternative view, however, is that streaming enables the most effective utilization of resources between members, thereby promoting or facilitating the integrity of the tax system. Freudenberg, supra note 11, at 156. 282. There are a number of factors that could affect a member's ability to utilize allocated losses
HM REVENUE & CUSTOMS, CAPITAL GAINS MANUAL, PARTNERSHIPS CG27181 Posted: 2005-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
294,906
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies