Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of Tax Compliance by SMEs and Tax Practitioners in New Zealand: A Divergent View?

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 26(1): 57-85, 2020

30 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2020

Dr. Sue Yong

Auckland University of Technology

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: March 13, 2020

Abstract

Despite the economic importance of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), little is known about their tax compliance perceptions, which may influence their compliance behavior. This is particularly so in relation to comparing the tax perceptions of New Zealand SMEs and their tax practitioners. This article reports on a qualitative study which examined the tax compliance perceptions of New Zealand SMEs and their tax practitioners. The findings of this study reveal that SMEs’ perceptions of tax compliance are multifaceted and include legal factors, compliance costs, economic considerations and perceptions of “others”. On the other hand, tax practitioners generally have a narrow context focusing mainly on compliance cost and legal obligations. The tax policy implications from this study include that it can potentially assist tax authorities to design and implement strategies to influence SMEs’ compliance behaviors. Also, for tax practitioners it illustrates their important role in reducing the stress of their SME clients by assisting them through education, including how to use accounting reports for compliance and business control purposes.

Keywords: Tax, Compliance, SME, Small Business, New Zealand, Perceptions

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Yong, Sue and Freudenberg, Brett, Perceptions of Tax Compliance by SMEs and Tax Practitioners in New Zealand: A Divergent View? (March 13, 2020). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 26(1): 57-85, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3649856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3649856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Measures No 4) Bill 2018, Part 2, which inserted a new s 8C(1)(f)(fa) into the Taxation Administration Act Posted: 1953
Valerie Braithwaite
Responsive Regulation and Taxation: Introduction" (2007) 29 Law and Policy 3
Others Freudenberg
Crossref
Lignier
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
174,067
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies