Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History and Theory of Formulary Apportionment

in Richard Krever and François Vaillancourt (eds.), The Allocation of Multinational Business Income: Reassessing the Formulary Apportionment Option (Alphen aan den Rijn: Kluwer Law International, 2020), 9-39.

52 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2020

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Peter Mellor

Monash Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

This chapter examines the historical development of the formulary apportionment approach in key jurisdictions.

From the time income taxes were first widely enacted, tax designers have been concerned with the question of how to allocate profits in transactions that incorporated labour, capital or sales inputs across several jurisdictions if each jurisdiction wished to tax the income that was ‘sourced’ in that jurisdiction. The intuitive solution adopted almost universally for the earliest income and predecessor taxes when an enterprise operated across borders was to allocate a share of the profits to each jurisdiction that contributed to the total profits by reference to formulas incorporating the factors that were presumed to contribute to the generation of those profits. Most commonly, the first formulas were applied unilaterally on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis and often applied on a sectoral basis to particular industries.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard and Mellor, Peter, History and Theory of Formulary Apportionment (January 1, 2020). in Richard Krever and François Vaillancourt (eds.), The Allocation of Multinational Business Income: Reassessing the Formulary Apportionment Option (Alphen aan den Rijn: Kluwer Law International, 2020), 9-39., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3661106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A comprehensive study of the growth of tax havens can be found in Vanessa Ogle, Archipelago Capitalism: Tax Havens, Offshore Money, and the State , volume 122 Posted: 1950
Crossref
COM (2011) 121/4, 16 March 2011; the European Parliament resolution of 19 April 2012 provided for a mandatory apportionment system after a transition period but the proposal in its entirety subsequently stalled in the European Council: see Joann M. Weiner, The Dream is Alive: EU Tax Policy with a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base and Formulary Apportion
Proposal for a Council Directive on a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB)
Corporate Income: The Case for the Separate Accounting Method, 14 Berkeley J. Int'l L. 99 (1996) arguing separate accounting is more consistent with customary international law
Douglas Shackelford , &amp; Joel Slemrod
The Revenue Consequences of Using Formula Apportionment to Calculate US and Foreign-Source Income: A Firm-Level Analysis, 5(1) Int'l Tax & Pub. Fin. 41 (1998) suggested US-based multinationals would see their US tax liabilities rise by 38%
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
RANK
330,157
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies