Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Corporate Tax Avoidance and Cost of Capital

42 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2020

Stephanie Sikes

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Robert E. Verrecchia

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

We identify a pecuniary externality arising from corporate tax avoidance. Firms share risk with the government via taxation. The lower the tax rate applied to a firm’s earnings, the more risk is borne by its shareholders. As more firms engage in avoidance in the aggregate, the variance of the market’s after-tax cash flow increases. Consequently, the covariance of a firm’s cash flow with the market cash flow, and thereby its cost of capital, increases. This occurs both for firms that avoid taxes and for those that do not. Consistent with our prediction, we find that firms’ implied cost of capital is positively related to aggregate corporate tax avoidance. This result holds not only for tax-avoiding but, crucially, also for non-tax-avoiding firms. As we predict, the pecuniary externality is stronger for firms whose cash flow covaries more with the market cash flow, and is driven by tax avoidance strategies that reduce a firm’s marginal tax rate as opposed to reducing its tax base.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance, Cost of Capital, Expected Rate of Return, Risk-Sharing

JEL Classification: G12, G18, G32, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sikes, Stephanie and Verrecchia, Robert E., Aggregate Corporate Tax Avoidance and Cost of Capital (June 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3662733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3662733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Auerbach , K Hassett
Tax policy and business fixed investment in the United States
Journal of Public Economics , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 70 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Claus , J Thomas
Equity premia as low as three percent? Evidence from analysts' earnings forecasts for domestic and international stock markets
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1629 - 66 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J H Cochrane
Presidential Address: Discount Rates
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 1047 - 1108 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Cullen , R Gordon
Taxes and entrepreneurial risk-taking: Theory and evidence for the U.S
Journal Public Economics , volume 91 , p. 1479 - 1505 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,261
RANK
136,584
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies