Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Sparing Clauses as a Policy Instrument of Developing Countries and Their Descent: Evidence from the Latin-American Tax Treaty Network

Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 20-17

31 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2020

Aitor Navarro

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: August 7, 2020

Abstract

Developing countries frequently grant corporate income tax incentives to attract foreign direct investment that would ultimately contribute to their economic growth. To secure the effectiveness of these measures at a cross-border level in the context of jurisdictions that eliminate double taxation through the credit method, tax sparing clauses grant a notional credit at residence -namely, a discount on the taxes due, even if no or lower taxes were paid at source-, to prevent the residence country to tax that income and thus allow the investor to retain the tax spared by the source country. This contribution examines the rationale of tax sparing, as well as the relevance of this policy instrument in the Latin-American tax treaty network by analyzing all clauses adopted in it. Also, the author ascertains the decline and probable collapse of tax sparing clauses due to the enforcement of CFC rules and the possible adoption of an income inclusion rule as proposed in the OECD GloBE proposal (Pillar 2).

Keywords: Tax, Developping countries, tax sparing clause

JEL Classification: K34, O20, O40

Suggested Citation:

Navarro, Aitor, Tax Sparing Clauses as a Policy Instrument of Developing Countries and Their Descent: Evidence from the Latin-American Tax Treaty Network (August 7, 2020). Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 20-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3669121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Société Natexis Banques Populaires, n. 284930, ECLI:FR:CESSR:2006:284930.20060726. FR: Conseil d'État , volume 366680 Posted: 2006-07-26
Crossref
Bryan J Arnold
The relationship between controlled foreign corporation rules and tax sparing provisions in tax treaties: New Zealand case
Bulletin for international taxation , volume 72 , issue 7 , p. 430 - 438 Posted: 2018
Hope Ashiabor
Tax Sparing: A Timeworn Mechanism in Australia's Bilateral Treaties with Its Trading Partners in Southeast Asia
International Tax Journal , volume 24 , p. 67 - 98 Posted: 1998
Avery Jones , F John
Treaty Interpretation
Global Tax Treaty Commentaries Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
324,400
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies