Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Weapons in the COVID-19 War: A Preliminary Study of Brazil, Canada, Denmark, UK and US

Belt and Road Initiative Tax Journal 1(1) 2020

Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper

9 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2020

Jinyan Li

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Nathan Jin Bao

Osgoode Hall Law School

Sean Shanghua Hu

Independent

Matias Zerbino

York University, Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic is killing hundreds of thousands of people and crippling businesses worldwide. There is no medical cure or vaccine yet. To prevent COVID-19 from crushing the health care system, non-essential activities have been paused and people are asked to stay home and keep “social distancing” in order to slow down the spread of the virus. Between 37 and 40 percent of jobs in the United States (US), the United Kingdom (UK) and Sweden can plausibly be performed entirely at home, but most workers cannot continue working. Such pause means no income for workers and no revenues for businesses while necessity expenditures continue rising. To fight the COVID-19 “war” through pausing the economy, governments have resorted to tax policy instruments as well as fiscal and monetary instruments to support workers and businesses during the pause period.

In this paper, we canvass the tax policy weaponry in the context of overall COVID-19 relief measures in Brazil, Canada, Denmark, the UK and US. These countries represent different contexts and approaches to fighting against the common invisible “enemy” — COVID-19. Our goal is to see how tax measures are used, whether there is much similarity among the selected countries, and what the likely implications for the long term are. We make some general observations about the possible changes for the post-COVID-19 tax system.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinyan and Bao, Nathan Jin and Hu, Sean Shanghua and Zerbino, Matias, Tax Weapons in the COVID-19 War: A Preliminary Study of Brazil, Canada, Denmark, UK and US (April 29, 2020). Belt and Road Initiative Tax Journal 1(1) 2020, Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3670802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
2020 BELT AND ROAD INITIATIVE TAX JOURNAL Tax Weapons in the COVID-19 War: A Preliminary Study of Brazil , volume 1
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
RANK
355,843
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies