Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation and Dishonest Behavior: How Controlling Regulatory Mechanisms Prompt Dishonesty in Tax Consulting

Florida Tax Review, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2020

Ilanit Gavious

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

Yaron Lahav

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

Hagit Weihs

Brandeis University - International Business School

Date Written: August 26, 2020

Abstract

We study experimentally how the conflict of interest faced by tax consultants – between telling the truth and pleasing their clients – affects their professional decision-making process, under different levels of scrutiny in the form of an audit. Eighty percent of the experiment’s participants exhibited dishonest behavior. The possibility of being audited by the tax authorities significantly affected the decision-making process of participants when acting dishonestly. While this possibility improved the consulting quality at the beginning of the process, more manipulative efforts followed, leading to an end result similar to that observed in the absence of the risk of an audit. Remarkably, the manipulative efforts increased with the likelihood of an audit.

Keywords: Conflict of Interest, Consulting, Dishonesty, Tax, Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: C91, D81, F23, H25, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gavious, Ilanit and Lahav, Yaron and Weihs, Hagit, Regulation and Dishonest Behavior: How Controlling Regulatory Mechanisms Prompt Dishonesty in Tax Consulting (August 26, 2020). Florida Tax Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3675361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3675361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
G A Akerlof
The market for " lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
D D Bobek , A M Hageman , R C Hatfield
The role of client advocacy in the development of tax professionals' advice
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 51 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D D Bobek , A M Hageman , R R Radtke
The effects of professional role, decision context, and gender on the ethical decision making of public accounting professionals Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
966
RANK
778,997
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies