Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Provided Tax Services: A Systematic Review of the International Literature

61 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2020

Xuan (Sean) Sun

Massey University

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: August 19, 2020

Abstract

We review the empirical literature on the determinants and consequences of auditor-provided tax services (APTS) and provide some directions for future research. We first review the evolution of APTS fees disclosures and related regulations in select jurisdictions, followed by a summary of determinants of APTS. We review studies examining firms’ decisions (1) to disclose the APTS information voluntarily; (2) to choose incumbent auditors as the tax service providers; and (3) to retain or dismiss incumbent auditors as the tax service providers. Our review suggests that all these decisions are related to the cost-benefit trade-off. We then review the literature on the consequences of APTS. This strand of the literature in the U.S. supports the knowledge spillover effect, but the findings in the non-U.S. settings are mixed. The market perceptions of APTS in both the U.S. and non-U.S. settings suggest that market participants react to APTS negatively during uncertain periods.

Keywords: Non-Audit Services, Auditor-Provided Tax Service, Knowledge Spillover, Impairment of Independence, Audit Regulation

JEL Classification: K33, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Xuan (Sean) and Habib, Ahsan, Determinants and Consequences of Auditor Provided Tax Services: A Systematic Review of the International Literature (August 19, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3676856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3676856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
149 References
P J Beck , T J Frecka , I Solomon
A model of the market for MAS and audit services: Knowledge spillovers and auditor-auditee bonding
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 64 Posted: 1988
J C Bedard , D Falsetta , G Krishnamoorthy , T C Omer
Voluntary disclosure of auditorprovided tax service fees
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 77 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Bedard , S M Paquette
Audit committee financial expertise, litigation risk, and auditorprovided tax services Posted: 2019
A Booth , D Papioannou , A Sutton
Systematic approaches to a successful literature review Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Dan Lynch , Stefanie Pendl
Tax Uncertainty and Auditor-Provided Tax Services: The Impact of Regulatory Changes in the EU
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-14 · 48 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 13 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 126
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
149 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies