Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The VAT Compliance Burden in the UK: A Comparative Assessment

(2020) British Tax Review 354-377

25 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2020

Yige Zu

Durham University

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: August 22, 2020

Abstract

This article explores the compliance burden imposed by the value added tax (VAT), which has traditionally been recognised as one of the more onerous taxes so far as compliance by business taxpayers is concerned. It compares the UK’s VAT compliance burden with that experienced elsewhere in the EU, together with the experience of other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and Forum on Tax Administration countries. Based upon the outcomes of a large-scale research project conducted in 2018–19 using an experimental diagnostic tool, the UK appears to have mixed results, comparing poorly in relation to certain factors but outperforming many of its European and global counterparts in relation to other aspects of its VAT regime. The results are of particular interest to UK policy makers and practitioners as they establish that the most significant sources of compliance burden lie in the design of the underlying VAT law rather than in its administration. The UK’s withdrawal from the EU may offer a once in a generation opportunity to effect real change and make meaningful reductions to the business compliance burden which could provide lasting improvements to the internationally competitive position of UK businesses. The importance of addressing the current causes of the compliance burden becomes all the more pressing in the face of pending new costs UK businesses will face post-Brexit. The freedom created by Brexit in terms of VAT design should be exploited to achieve compliance burden reductions needed to offset new costs likely to arise in the post-Brexit era.

Note: “This material was first published by Thomson Reuters, trading as Sweet & Maxwell, 5 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AQ, in the British Tax Review as The VAT Compliance Burden in the UK: A Comparative Assessmen [2020] BTR, No.3 and is reproduced by agreement with the publishers”."

Keywords: Brexit; Comparative law; Compliance costs; OECD; VAT

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Zu, Yige and Evans, Christopher Charles and Krever, Richard, The VAT Compliance Burden in the UK: A Comparative Assessment (August 22, 2020). (2020) British Tax Review 354-377, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3679240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Economic and Fiscal Outlook
Office for Budget Responsibility Posted: 2018-10
I See , M Crawford , S Keen , H Smith ; E , J A Davis , Kay
(eds) for the Institute for Fiscal Studies, Dimensions of tax design, above fn.1, 275; and
Fiscal Studies , volume 6 , issue 1 Posted: 1985
United Biscuits (UK) Ltd v CC&E Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
538
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,708
RANK
118,619
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies