Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Specific Versus Generic Accounting-Based Textual Analysis and the Relationship with Effective Tax Rates: Building Context

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2020

Eric J. Allen

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Hao Qu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Charles W. Swenson

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

A growing literature, typically using “bags of words” dictionaries, examines the information content of text in financial accounting disclosures. We generate context for our text analysis to help predict effective tax rates using two approaches. First, we create tax-specific, expert-derived, dictionaries and second, we generate the counts for those bags of words using text taken from tax-related discussions of the Form 10K, as opposed to its entirety. We find that using expertise provides more information than simply using general accounting and finance dictionaries. In addition, we find that generating general accounting text variable values from tax-related content in the Form 10K provides statistically significant improvement in model fit. Contrary to more generic accounting and finance word-based text analysis, we find that the signs on our positive and negative tax event dictionaries are different and are consistent with theoretical expectations through each of our modeled time periods.

Keywords: Text Analysis, Tax Specific Dictionary, Effective Tax Rates, Tax Haven Dictionary

JEL Classification: M41,

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Eric J. and O'Leary, Daniel E. and Qu, Hao and Swenson, Charles W., Tax Specific Versus Generic Accounting-Based Textual Analysis and the Relationship with Effective Tax Rates: Building Context (September 1, 2020). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3684838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3684838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
*** , *
Crossref
This table presents the Chi-square statistic from the test of the difference in likelihood from each of the models indicated
See Table 1 for sample construction and Table 4 for the details on each model
Panel B shows the test of the difference between each of the models indicated and the model that includes all of the text dictionaries derived from the tax section of the 10K , volume 4
R Feldman , S Govindaraj , J Livnat , B Segal
Management's tone change, post earnings announcement drift and accruals
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 915 - 953 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,431
RANK
276,301
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies