Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Money Laundering Regulation: A Positive Spillover Effect on Tax Inequality (Agenda)

Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 20-26

16 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2020

Kalle Johannes Rose

Copenhagen Business School - CBS Law

Date Written: September 8, 2020

Abstract

Recent research has proven a correlation between money laundering activities and tax havens. One of the results of which is that multiple financial entities close down their branches or correspondent relations operating in tax haven countries due to the risks of money laundering , especially sanctions and reputational damage. This article examines and discusses how the fear of getting involved in money laundering contradicts the incentive of establishing or expanding tax havens and/or pushing for a low tax agenda in and outside of the EU. The article focuses on the incentives of placing a company (financial and non-financial), a branch or the like in a low tax county in relation to the EU regulatory framework regarding the prevention of money laundering, which has started the de-risking of companies in low tax countries. The overall purpose of the article is to analyze whether the anti-money laundering directive actually pushes forward an agenda for equal taxation and decreases the incentive of exploiting tax haven solutions that support an unequal international taxation.

Keywords: EU anti-money laundering directive, Tax haven, Equal taxation, Money laundering

JEL Classification: K34, H20, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Rose, Kalle Johannes, Money Laundering Regulation: A Positive Spillover Effect on Tax Inequality (Agenda) (September 8, 2020). Copenhagen Business School, CBS LAW Research Paper No. 20-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3688877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
B J Arnold
The Taxation of Controlled Foreign Corporations: an International Comparison
Canadian Tax Foundation Posted: 1986
J M Buchanan , W C Stubblebine
Externality
Economica , volume 29 , issue 116 , p. 371 - 384 Posted: 1962
Crossref
A Cobham
Taxation Policy and Development Posted: 2005
Danske Bank
Danske Bank closes down its banking activities in the Baltics and in Russia Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
394,952
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies