Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Tax Policy: How Do People Reason

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15216

155 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2020 Last revised: 22 Sep 2021

Stefanie Stantcheva

Harvard University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: August 2020

Abstract

I study how people understand, reason, and learn about two major tax policies: income taxation and estate taxation. Using large-scale Social Economics surveys issued to representative U.S. samples and associated experiments, I seek to elicit respondents' factual knowledge about tax policy and the income or wealth distributions. Most importantly, I study their understanding of the mechanisms of tax policy and the reasoning that underlies their policy views. In decomposing policy views, I find that support for income and estate taxes is most strongly correlated with social preferences, i.e., the perceived benefits of redistribution and concerns around the fairness of inequality and taxation, as well as with broader views of the government. Efficiency concerns play a more minor role. These correlational patterns are confirmed by the experimental approach, which shows people instructional videos that explain the workings and consequences of one of the aspects of tax policy (the "Redistribution'' and the "Efficiency'' treatments) or that bring the two together and focus on the trade-off (the "Economist'' treatment). The Redistribution and Economist treatments significantly increase support for more progressive income or estate taxes, while the Efficiency treatment has no effect. There are large partisan gaps in both the final policy views, and at every step of the reasoning about the underlying mechanisms of taxes. Democrats' and Republicans' divergences in tax policy views can ultimately be traced back to different normative criteria (social preferences) and views of the government, rather than to different perceptions of the efficiency implications of taxation.

Keywords: Experiments, Fairness, Perceptions, redistribution, survey, taxation

JEL Classification: D72, D91, H21, H23, H24, H41

Suggested Citation:

Stantcheva, Stefanie, Understanding Tax Policy: How Do People Reason (August 2020). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15216, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3688170
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
89 References
U Akcigit , J Grigsby , T Nicholas , S Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century Posted: 2018
U Akcigit , S Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation: What Do We Know? NBER Working Paper 27109 Posted: 2020
A Alesina , A Miano , S Stantcheva
Immigration and Redistribution. NBER Working Paper 24733 Posted: 2019
A Alesina , A Miano , S Stantcheva
The Polarization of Reality
AEA Papers and Proceedings , volume 110 , p. 324 - 328 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
426
46 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies