Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Consequences of Expanded Audit Reporting: Implications of Tax Key Audit Matters for Tax Attribute Valuation and Auditor-Provided Tax Services 

69 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2020 Last revised: 17 Aug 2023

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Aaron Mandell

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Linette M. Rousseau

University of Houston, Bauer College of Business

Date Written: November 9, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the consequences of tax key audit matters (KAMs) to the valuation of clients’ tax attributes and to auditor provided tax services (APTS). Existing literature on expanded audit reporting finds that KAMs are not associated with investor or audit outcomes. This creates an impetus to identify whether, in specific circumstances or for especially sensitive topics, KAMs are more consequential. Tax KAMs are an ideal setting for this investigation because they are prevalent, taxes are economically important, and auditors can provide tax services to their clients. We find that investors discount the tax avoidance and deferred tax assets of companies receiving tax KAMs. We find that these effects map directly into the specific topics of the company’s tax KAM such as uncertain tax positions (UTPs), deferred tax assets (DTAs), and multijurisdictional complexity. These results suggest managers have incentives to avoid tax KAMs. Consistent with self-interest threats to auditor independence, we find that receiving a tax KAM is negatively associated with clients’ concurrent APTS purchases, but clients increase their future APTS purchases when they stop receiving tax KAMs. Our results are strongest for UTP and DTA KAMs, where the auditor has the most discretion in issuing the KAM. These results reveal previously unknown consequences of tax KAMs to the valuation of companies’ tax attributes and the incentives around APTS. 

Keywords: tax, key audit matters, critical audit matters, KAM, CAM, disclosure, auditor-provided tax services JEL Classifications: H20

JEL Classification: H20, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lynch, Dan and Mandell, Aaron and Rousseau, Linette,

The Consequences of Expanded Audit Reporting: Implications of Tax Key Audit Matters for Tax Attribute Valuation and Auditor-Provided Tax Services 

(November 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3689349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
L Abbott , W L Buslepp
Do Critical Audit Matters Provide Decision-Relevant Information to Investors? Evidence from Merger and Acquisition Announcements Posted: 2023
N Alsadoun , V Naiker , F Navissi , D S Sharma
Auditor-provided tax nonaudit services and the implied cost of equity capital
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 Posted: 1997
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The aggregation and valuation of deferred taxes
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , p. 275 - 297 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,055
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,923
RANK
48,555
6 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies