Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biennial Taxes – A Simple Solution to Rising Tax Non-Compliance, Shrinking IRS Budgets, and Increasing Taxpayer Burden

27 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2020 Last revised: 29 Sep 2020

Jeffrey A Dubin

University of Southern California, Department of Economics

Emma Cockerell

University of Southern California, Department of Economics

Date Written: September 9, 2020

Abstract

Each year, individual tax non-compliance causes billions of dollars of lost tax revenue. While the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) conducts examinations of select returns, the audit rate fell precipitously in past decades. Meanwhile, the number of individual returns grew and return complexity rose. Individuals face a dauntingly complex tax code that requires the assistance of paid preparers. More than ever, the IRS experiences greater demands for assistance from taxpayers but fewer resources to fulfill these demands. Instead of the oft-proposed IRS budget increase, we propose a simple and pragmatic, but transformative, solution: biennial filing and collection of taxes, which would minimize taxpayer and paperwork burdens, free up IRS funding, and result in a de facto doubling of the audit rate. In aggregate, the plan is estimated to save $74 – $83 billion for the IRS and the American public.

Keywords: tax gap, audit rates, tax compliance, compliance costs

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H71, H83, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dubin, Jeffrey A and Cockerell, Emma, Biennial Taxes – A Simple Solution to Rising Tax Non-Compliance, Shrinking IRS Budgets, and Increasing Taxpayer Burden (September 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689246 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3689246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Seth Hanlon
Unrigging the Economy Will Require Enforcing the Tax Laws Posted: 2020-03-12
This is not to say that implementation of the biennial tax would be devoid of costs. Individual tax is reported on some 180 forms all of which would potentially require some modification
Internal Revenue Service Data Book Posted: 2019
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 361 Posted: 1972
Crossref
D Arthur
Development of Methodology for Estimating Taxpayer Paperwork Burden Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
RANK
487,221
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies