Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Royalty Taxation under Profit Shifting and Competition for FDI

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2020/11

53 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020

Steffen Juranek

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Andrea Schneider

University of Münster - Institute for Public Economics

Date Written: September 9, 2020

Abstract

Multinational corporations increasingly use royalty payments for intellectual property rights to shift profits globally. This threatens not only the tax base of countries worldwide, it also affects the nature of competition for foreign direct investment (FDI). Against this background, our theoretical analysis suggests a surprising solution to the problem of curbing profit shifting without suffering major FDI losses: A strictly positive withholding tax on royalty payments is both the Pareto-efficient solution under international coordination and the optimal unilateral response. If internal debt is sufficiently responsive, governments can even implement Paretooptimal targeting. Then, the royalty tax closes the profit-shifting channel, while all competition for FDI is relegated to internal-debt regulation. Our results question the ban of royalty taxes in double tax treaties and the EU Interest and Royalty Directive.

Keywords: Source tax on royalties, foreign direct investment, multinationals, profit shifting, internal debt, EU Interest and Royalty Directive

JEL Classification: H25, F23, O23

Suggested Citation:

Juranek, Steffen and Schindler, Dirk and Schneider, Andrea, Royalty Taxation under Profit Shifting and Competition for FDI (September 9, 2020). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2020/11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3689736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
P Antrás
Firms, Contracts, and Trade Structure
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1375 - 1418 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
Capital Structure, Dividend Policy and Multinationality: Theory versus Empirical Evidence
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 19 , p. 140 - 150 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Arkolakis
Market Penetration Costs and the New Consumers Margin in International Trade
J ournal of Political Economy , volume 118 , p. 1151 - 1199 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Arkolakis , N Ramondo , A Rodríguez-Clare , S R Yeaple
Innovation and Production in the Global Economy
American Economic Review , volume 108 , p. 2128 - 2173 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
518,107
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies