Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of a 70 Percent Marginal Tax Rate

7 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2020

Veronique de Rugy

George Mason University - Mercatus Center

Jack Salmon

George Mason University - Mercatus Center

Date Written: September 10, 2020

Abstract

Proposals for raising the maximum statutory tax rate to 70 percent, with dual objectives of generating additional revenue for new spending and curtailing inequality, are gaining attention among both academics and media commentators.

While the idea might be superficially attractive, there is little reason to believe that a 70 percent marginal tax rate will generate greater revenue or help lower-income Americans — or that it will accomplish these goals with minimal effect on the economy. On the contrary, similar marginal tax increases in neighboring Canada in 2015 actually produced less revenue: high-income earners paid billions less owing to behavioral adjustment. Higher tax rates, broadly speaking, discourage people from acquiring skills that could increase income and discourage businesses from expanding. In addition, research on the effects of these tax rates shows they will lower wage growth for lower-income American workers. Comparisons to historic norms about tax rates ignore the past four decades of globalization and international tax changes. Lastly, in the context of new spending proposals, this tax change is neither sufficient nor desirable.

Keywords: Taxation, Disincentives, Tax Avoidance

Suggested Citation:

de Rugy, Veronique and Salmon, Jack, The Cost of a 70 Percent Marginal Tax Rate (September 10, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3690549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Paul Krugman
The Economics of Soaking the Rich
New York Times Posted: 2019-01-05
Matthew Yglesias
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Floating a 70 Percent Top Tax Rate -Here's the Research That Backs Her Up Posted: 2019-01-07
Gerald Auten , David Joulfaian
The Taxable Income Elasticity of High-Income Taxpayers: Evidence from a Long Panel
Pages: 23 Posted: 22 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Austan Goolsbee
What Happens When You Tax the Rich? Evidence from Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 352 - 78 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
785,592
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies