Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between MNE Tax Haven Use and FDI into Developing Economies Characterized by Capital Flight

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2020

30 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2020

Ali Ahmed

Newcastle University London

Chris Jones

Aston University - Aston Business School

Yama Temouri

Aston University

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

The use of tax havens by multinationals is a pervasive activity in international business. However, we know little about the complementary relationship between tax haven use and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the developing world. Drawing on internalization theory, we develop a conceptual framework that explores this relationship and allows us to contribute to the literature on the determinants of tax haven use by developed-country multinationals. Using a large, firm-level data set, we test the model and find a strong positive association between tax haven use and FDI into countries characterized by low economic development and extreme levels of capital flight. This paper contributes to the literature by adding an important dimension to our understanding of the motives for which MNEs invest in tax havens and has

Keywords: capital flight, economic development, institutions, tax havens, wealth extraction

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Ali and Jones, Chris and Temouri, Yama, The Relationship Between MNE Tax Haven Use and FDI into Developing Economies Characterized by Capital Flight (August 31, 2020). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Alesina , G Tabellini
External debt, capital flight and political risk
Journal of International Economics , volume 27 , issue 3-4 , p. 199 - 220 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J J Andersen , N Johannesen , D Dreyer Lassen , E Paltseva
Petro rents, political institutions, and hidden wealth: Evidence from offshore bank accounts
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Andersen , N Johannesen , B Rijkers
Elite capture of foreign aid: Evidence from offshore bank accounts. Policy Research Working Paper 9150 Posted: 2020
R Bolwijn , B Casella , D Rigo
An FDI-driven approach to measuring the scale and economic impact of BEPS
Transnational Corporations , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 143 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
185,220
16 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies