Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Deferred Taxes Under IFRS

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020

Vanessa Flagmeier

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

As prior evidence on deferred taxes under IFRS is scarce and inconclusive, this study examines whether deferred taxes reported in a German conservative accounting environment have information content. To improve informativeness, I propose a new split into four deferred tax categories. Applying this split, I replicate prior literature’s value relevance tests. Next, I examine whether the (lack of) value relevance can be explained by predictive ability. My findings indicate that aggregate deferred taxes are value relevant and that the new split informs about the drivers of this value relevance. It further helps to disentangle value relevance and predictive ability which do not always go hand in hand. Taken together, my results suggest that applying the new categorization improves the information content of deferred taxes.

Keywords: deferred taxes, IAS 12, predictive ability, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Flagmeier, Vanessa, The Information Content of Deferred Taxes Under IFRS (2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3692376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Eric J. Allen
The Information Content of the Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance: Evidence from Venture Capital Backed IPO Firms
Pages: 61 Posted: 13 Oct 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The Valuation of Deferred Taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' Interpretation and Investors' Valuation of Tax Carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B C Ayers
Deferred Tax Accounting under SFAS No. 109: An Empirical Investigation of its Incremental Value-Relevance Relative to APB No
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,318
RANK
216,737
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies