Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audits, Audit Effectiveness, and Post-audit Tax Compliance

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-12

49 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2020 Last revised: 22 Jun 2021

Matthias Kasper

University of Vienna; Tulane University

James Alm

Tulane University

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

It is well established in theoretical and empirical research that more audits lead to more post-audit tax compliance. However, there is growing recognition that the deterrent effects of audits are more complicated than first appears, in part because audits do not always detect evasion. This study uses a laboratory experiment to investigate the effect of tax audits on post-audit tax compliance. An important feature of our experimental design is the addition of audit “effectiveness” to our audit mechanism, where effectiveness is defined as the share of undeclared income that the tax agency detects in an audit. This addition allows us to examine the effects of audit effectiveness on post-audit compliance. We also study whether the effect of audits depends on a taxpayer’s reporting behavior prior to an audit. Contrary to standard theoretical predictions, we find that tax audits have differential effects on post-audit compliance and that the effectiveness of audits determines these responses; that is, while effective audits increase post-audit tax compliance, ineffective audits have the opposite effect. We also find that relatively compliant taxpayers exhibit the strongest behavioral response to audits. Our findings suggest that the specific deterrent effect of tax audits is more ambiguous than much previous analysis suggests, with these effects dependent on the effectiveness of the audit process and on the taxpayer’s prior reporting behavior.

Keywords: Tax compliance; Audit effectiveness; Specific deterrence; General deterrence; Laboratory experiments

JEL Classification: C9; H26; H83

Suggested Citation:

Kasper, Matthias and Alm, James, Audits, Audit Effectiveness, and Post-audit Tax Compliance (June 22, 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3695035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3695035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits
The Institute for Fiscal Studies Posted: 2017
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Uncertain tax policies, individual behavior, and welfare
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 237 - 245 Posted: 1988
J Alm
What motivates tax compliance?
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,021
RANK
110,759
7 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies