Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash on the Table? Imperfect Take-up of Tax Incentives and Firm Investment Behavior

71 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2020 Last revised: 14 Jul 2021

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Jeffrey Hicks

University of Toronto

Jing Xing

Antai College of Economics & Management, Shanghai Jiao Tong University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 8, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether tax incentives are effective in stimulating private investment in less developed countries, by exploiting the introduction of accelerated depreciation for fixed assets investment in China as a natural experiment. In contrast to the large positive impact of similar tax incentives in the U.S. and U.K. found in recent studies, accelerated depreciation appeared ineffective in stimulating Chinese firms’ investment. Using confidential corporate tax returns from a large province, we find that firms fail to claim the tax benefits on over 80 percent of eligible investments. Firms’ take-up of the tax incentive is significantly influenced by their taxable positions and tax sophistication. Information transmission and resources of local tax authorities also play a significant role. Our study contributes to the understanding of conditions under which tax-based investment incentives can be effective.

Keywords: tax incentives, investment, take-up, tax administration

JEL Classification: H2,H3

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei and Hicks, Jeffrey and Xing, Jing, Cash on the Table? Imperfect Take-up of Tax Incentives and Firm Investment Behavior (July 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3695120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3695120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Karl O. Aarbu , Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason
Explaining Underutilization of Tax Depreciation Deductions: Empirical Evidence from Norway
Pages: 32 Posted: 7 Apr 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Johannes Abeler , Simon Jäger
Complex Tax Incentives
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015-08
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach
The New Economics of Accelerated Depreciation
Boston College Law Review , volume 23 , issue 5 , p. 1327 - 1355 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Philip Bazel , Jack Mintz
Policy Forum: Is Accelerated Depreciation Good or Misguided Tax Policy?
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 61 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Wei Cui
Taxpayer Self-Inspections, Audits, and Optimal Tax Administration: Evidence from China
28 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James Alm , Kay Blaufus , Martin Fochmann , Erich Kirchler , Peter Mohr , Nina E. Olson , Benno Torgler
Tax Policy Measures to Combat the SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic and Considerations to Improve Tax Compliance: A Behavioral Perspective
WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2020-10 · 40 Pages · Posted: 16 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 31 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 1,051
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,654
RANK
222,076
2 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies