Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation and Taxes: Evidence from Relative Performance Evaluation

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2020

Courtney Yazzie

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Date Written: September 19, 2020

Abstract

Relative performance evaluation (RPE) is a common practice in compensation contracting, essentially conditioning management compensation on the achievement of certain performance goals relative to a benchmark. In this paper, we examine the incentive effects of RPE usage on tax outcomes. We predict and find that low-tax peers in RPE contracts influence focal firm tax outcomes. Specifically, we find that a greater proportion of low-tax RPE peers embedded in RPE compensation contracts is associated with lower book and cash effective tax rates, and we find evidence that this effect is not confined to RPE peers within the same industry. Moreover, we also find that the tax outcomes incentivized through low-tax RPE peers occurs through RPE grants conditional on achieving after-tax earnings metrics. Overall, our results reveal that RPE provides a meaningful influence on corporate tax outcomes.

Keywords: executive compensation; incentives; peer effects; relative performance evaluation; taxes

JEL Classification: M41, J33, H25

Suggested Citation:

Yazzie, Courtney and Kubick, Thomas R., Compensation and Taxes: Evidence from Relative Performance Evaluation (September 19, 2020). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3695708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
G Gong , L Li , J Shin
Relative performance evaluation and related peer groups in executive compensation contracts
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 1007 - 1043 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Gong , L Li , H Yin
Relative performance evaluation and the timing of earnings release
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , p. 358 - 386 Posted: 2019
Crossref
J Graham , M Hanlon , T Shevlin , N Shroff
Incentives for tax planning and avoidance: Evidence from the field
Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 991 - 1024 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Gupta , K Newberry
Determinants of the variability in corporate effective tax rates: Evidence from longitudinal study
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
499,164
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies