Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
XBRL Tag Extensions and Tax Accrual Quality

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-054

Posted: 14 Nov 2020 Last revised: 16 Nov 2020

Stephanie Walton

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Liu Yang

Wichita State University

Yiyang Zhang

Youngstown State University - Lariccia School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 26, 2020

Abstract

The adoption of eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) requires management to label all information in their firm's financial statements and corresponding notes with either standardor custom extended tags. While prior literature has found that the rate of customization is associated with increased financial reporting complexity, there could be an unintended, beneficial consequence to tax reporting. We examine how the relative use of tax-related XBRL tag extensions could highlight unique tax activity characteristics, in turn increasing tax accrual quality and improving tax reporting transparency. We find that having a higher relative rate of extended tax tags is associated with higher tax accrual quality. That is, utilizing more tax tag extensions can assist in providing useful tax information, especially when a high number of total XBRL tags are used. Our results also suggest the need to reexamine the standard taxonomy to include more tax-oriented terms to improve financial reporting comparability.

Keywords: eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL), Tax Accrual, Extensions, Financial Reporting of Income Taxes

Suggested Citation:

Walton, Stephanie and Yang, Liu and Zhang, Yiyang, XBRL Tag Extensions and Tax Accrual Quality (September 26, 2020). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/ISYS-19-054 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700173
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies