Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 20-32

Fama-Miller Working Paper

11 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Eugene F. Fama

University of Chicago - Finance

Date Written: September 29, 2020

Abstract

This is a compendium of several related notes on taxes. Section I presents a simple general tax scheme. It is a tax on value added by labor and capital that does not favor one over the other. Section II, on business income taxes, contrasts the taxation of business income for closely held pass-through entities and open corporations. Section III discusses property taxes as annual taxes on housing services and so a form of income tax. Section IV turns to wealth taxes. Its main point is that like property taxes, wealth taxes imposed annually are income taxes that are large relative to annual income or consumption services from taxed assets. As a result, wealth taxes can have large negative effects on prices of taxed assets. The paper closes with (what I think is) a fun section contrasting governments and non-profits and the way they are financed. The puzzle posed is to explain why people donate to nonprofits but minimize tax payments to governments even though governments and nonprofits engage in many of the same activities.

Suggested Citation:

Fama, Eugene F., Taxes (September 29, 2020). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 20-32, Fama-Miller Working Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Eugene F Fama , Michael C Jensen
Separation of Ownership and Control
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 26 , p. 301 - 325 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Eugene F Fama , Michael C Jensen
Agency Problems and Residual Claims
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 26 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
RANK
131,938
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies