Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Income Taxes

Fama-Miller Working Paper

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 20-33

5 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Eugene F. Fama

University of Chicago - Finance

Date Written: September 29, 2020

Abstract

Governments tax production, and they tax consumption. This note is concerned with the taxation of income from production in the U.S. The goal is to make sense, if possible, of special features of the taxation of the securityholders of open corporations. The special features are as follows. (i) Interest payments on bonds are tax deductible at the corporate level, which means they are only taxed at the personal level and at personal tax rates. (ii) Dividends are not tax deductible at the corporate level, which means the income that produces them is subject first to the corporate tax and then to personal taxes – double taxation. (iii) Retained earnings are subject to the corporate tax, and they are subject to personal tax but at rates below ordinary income rates (at least historically) and only when eventually realized as capital gains.

Suggested Citation:

Fama, Eugene F., Business Income Taxes (September 29, 2020). Fama-Miller Working Paper, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 20-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
279,629
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies