Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elimination of Double Taxation in the European Union: Former Article 293 TEEC, EU Competences and Controversial Aspects of the Arbitration Directive

Combating Tax Avoidance in the EU. Harmonization and Cooperation in Direct Taxation, ISBN 978-94-035-0154-3

56 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2020

Aitor Navarro

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: September 30, 2019

Abstract

In the context of the OECD BEPS Plan and the actions undertaken by the European Union to achieve a fair and efficient corporate tax system, the enhancement of dispute resolution mechanisms between tax administrations is practically the only action aimed at boosting taxpayers’ rights, which is evidence of the imbalance between the goal of a fair and efficient system and the corresponding increase in the burden on taxpayers. It is without doubt that the asymmetrical implementation of the BEPS recommendations derived from this framework, both at a domestic and at a double taxation convention (DTC) level, will generate a significant increase in disputes and hence the risk of double taxation will rise. This is why the adoption of adequate tools to mitigate such a scenario is more necessary than ever.

In particular in the context of the European Union, the existence of double taxation, derived from the different interpretation and enforcement of a set of rules aimed precisely at eliminating it, arises as a meaningful impediment to the adequate functioning of the single market, as it generates distortions regarding the adoption of investment and finance decisions. This is why the recent enactment of the Directive on tax dispute resolution mechanisms in the European Union (hereinafter the Directive), has to be praised as a crucial achievement in removing unwanted double taxation. The adoption of such an instrument will enable persons affected by double taxation derived from a disparate interpretation or qualification conflict in the context of a DTC signed by EU Member States to initiate a mutual agreement procedure (MAP) between the involved tax authorities and an arbitration procedure should they not reach an agreement. This possibility significantly increases the chances that the double taxation outcome is resolved. Spain must transpose the Directive into domestic law before 30 June 2019 by modifying its existing rules in this area.

In this contribution, it will be shown that double taxation has been a relentless concern within the European Union and that the Arbitration Directive is the latest achievement in a long and often unsuccessful path the European Commission has been weaving for decades to address this problem. Also, the most controversial aspects of the Directive will be analysed. Despite being a clear accomplishment overall, this instrument also presents certain relevant issues. Specifically, the scope of the Directive, the relationship between the involved tax authorities and the taxpayer throughout the whole process, and the relationship between the Directive procedures and other analogous procedures will be dealt with.

Keywords: European Union, EU tax law, double taxation, alternative dispute resolution, ADR, mutual agreement procedure, MAP, arbitration

JEL Classification: H20, H87, F23, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Navarro, Aitor, Elimination of Double Taxation in the European Union: Former Article 293 TEEC, EU Competences and Controversial Aspects of the Arbitration Directive (September 30, 2019). Combating Tax Avoidance in the EU. Harmonization and Cooperation in Direct Taxation, ISBN 978-94-035-0154-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3702338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
; Similarly , See Mtc , F Serrano Antón
the context of the arbitration clause of Art. 25 of the OECD Posted: 2010
Art For
Capital Gains (Art. 13 OECD Model Convention
Source versus residence Posted: 2008
Obuoforibo See , B
IBFD), sec. 2.2. See also Art. 10(3) OECD MTC on the definition of the term 'dividends
For instance, see Art. 4(1) OECD MTC on the definition of the term 'residence' for DTC purposes , volume 4 Posted: 2016
Oecd Mtc , Art
OECD 2015 Preventing the Granting of Treaty Benefits in Inappropriate Circumstances , volume 29 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
436,942
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies