Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Taxes on Net Investment of Listed Communication Firms in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 10, No. 2, April 2020, pp. 171–183

13 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 5, 2020

Abstract

This study determined the effect of Taxes on Net Investment of Listed Communication Firms in Nigeria for a period of ten years spanning from 2010 and 2019. Eight Communications firms were purposively sampled from a population of eleven listed Communication firms in Nigeria. The proxies for Taxes include Information Communication Tax, Education Tax and Company Income Tax, while Net Investment served as the dependent variable. Pearson Correlation Coefficient and Panel Least Square (PLS) Regression analysis via E-Views 10.0 statistical software were used to test the hypotheses of the study. The result of this study showed that Information Communication Tax, Education Tax and Company Income Tax have a significant negative effect on Net Investment at 5% level of significance respectively. This study therefore recommends inter alia that Federal Government of Nigeria should reduce the amount of tax liability at the end of the year thus making funds available for further investment.

Keywords: Taxation, Net Investment, Information Communication Tax, Education Tax

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effect of Taxes on Net Investment of Listed Communication Firms in Nigeria (April 5, 2020). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences Vol. 10, No. 2, April 2020, pp. 171–183, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH -International Journal of Business & Management Science , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
C U Agbionu , N N Amahalu , U Egolum
Attitudinal change, power of thought and empowerment: The Indisputable Nexus. Contemporary Issues in Business Management: A Multidisciplinary Approach Posted: 2017
O Akele
&view=article&id=150:history-and-evolution-of-the-telephone&option=com_content&view=article&id= 150:history-and-evolution-of-the-telephone Posted: 2018
N N Amahalu , B O Ezechukwu
Effect of cash holding on financial performance of selected quoted insurance firms in Nigeria. The Indisputable Nexus. Contemporary Issues in Business Management: A Multidisciplinary Approach , p. 361 - 386 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
386,928
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies