Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Tax Leakages on Economic Development of Nigeria

18 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2020

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 3, 2018

Abstract

This study examined the effects of tax leakages on economic development of Nigeria during the period 2008-2017. Specifically, it investigated how tax evasion and avoidance influenced economic development measured by gross domestic product per capita, infant mortality and life expectancy. In pursuit of the objectives of this study, three hypotheses were formulated and tested using secondary data obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria, Federal Inland Revenue Service, World Bank Statistical Bulletins and National Bureau of Statistics. This study is based on time series data. The Augmented Dickey Fuller was used to test the time series data for stationarity. Ordinary Least Square regression was employed in the analysis of the data. The findings of this study confirmed that tax leakage has a significant negative effect on economic development in Nigeria at 5% level of significance. On the basis of the findings, it was recommended among others that federal government should judiciously make use of tax proceeds to provide basic amenities for the citizens, such as health care, school and so on; as this would curb the rate of infant mortality and improve the rate of tax compliance among the tax payers.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, Infant Mortality, Tax Leakage

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor, Effects of Tax Leakages on Economic Development of Nigeria (December 3, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3704490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3704490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH -International Journal of Business & Management Science , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
J Acemoglu , A James
Disease and development in historical perspective
Journal of the European Economics Association , volume 1 , issue 23 , p. 397 - 405 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F F Adegbie , A S Fakile
Company income tax and Nigeria economic development
European Journal of Social Science , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 78 - 96 Posted: 2001
S Agha
The determinants of infant mortality in Pakistan
International Journal of Social Science and Administration , volume 4 , p. 208 - 225 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
806
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,215
RANK
70,313
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies