Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Tax Advisers and Corrupt Tax Auditors on Taxpayer Compliance

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2020, Vol. 68, No. 3, p. 801-832

32 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2020

Viswanath Trivedi

Schulich School of Business, York University

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 28, 2020

Abstract

Using two experiments, this study examines taxpayers' decisions on how much income to report in the presence of tax auditors and post-reporting tax advisers, respectively. In the first experiment, we examine taxpayers' compliance in the presence and absence of corrupt auditors. In the second experiment, we examine taxpayers' compliance in the presence of corrupt tax auditors and compare it with their compliance in the presence of tax advisers retained by the taxpayers upon being audited. The bribes sought by corrupt auditors from audited taxpayers are expressed in the form of a percentage of taxes and penalties payable.

The sequence of events in the first experiment is as follows: (1) the taxpayer decides what percentage of income to report to the tax authority; (2) the taxpayer finds out whether or not he or she is audited; and (3) the taxpayer pays any unpaid taxes and penalties if audited by a non-corrupt auditor, or decides whether to pay a bribe if the auditor is corrupt. In the second experiment, step 3 is replaced by the taxpayer having to decide whether to bribe the corrupt tax auditor without hiring a tax adviser, or to retain a (dispute resolution) tax adviser in the absence of a corrupt tax auditor to contest the penalties and underreporting of income. Participants' learning from earlier rounds of the experiment can affect their reporting choice in subsequent rounds.

The results of our first experiment show that overall taxpayer compliance is reduced in the mere presence of a corrupt tax auditor, even when bribe-seeking may offer no net after-tax monetary benefits to the taxpayers. This demonstrates the corrosive effects of corrupt auditors. Taxpayer compliance declines even further when taxpayers receive net monetary benefits from bribing the corrupt auditor.

The second experiment examines whether the involvement of a professional tax adviser increases or decreases the percentage of income reported compared to the baseline compliance in the presence of a corrupt tax auditor. If the tax adviser serves as a gatekeeper and moral authority, the percentage of income reported by the taxpayer client could increase in the presence of a tax adviser. However, if the tax adviser effectively serves to simply override the tax penalties imposed on the taxpayer, the percentage of income reported by the taxpayer client could decrease. Our experimental results show that in the absence of corrupt auditors, tax advisers are better at improving taxpayer compliance compared to the baseline compliance in the presence of a collusively corrupt tax auditor. This suggests that tax advisers do serve as moral gatekeepers for the tax system.

Keywords: corruption, tax audits, compliance, advisers, experimental, economics

Suggested Citation:

Trivedi, Viswanath and Mawani, Amin, Impact of Tax Advisers and Corrupt Tax Auditors on Taxpayer Compliance (October 28, 2020). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2020, Vol. 68, No. 3, p. 801-832, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3706928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R B Cialdini , R R Reno , C A Kallgren
A Focus Theory of Normative Conduct: Recycling the Concept of Norms To Reduce Littering in Public Places
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 58 , issue 6 , p. 1015 - 1041 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Marilynn B Brewer
The Role of Distinctiveness in Social Identity and Group Behaviour
Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1993), at 1 -16. See also Henri Tajfel, Social Identity and Intergroup Relations Posted: 1982
Henri Tajfel , John Turner , ; , Henri Tajfel , John Turner
An Integrative Theory of Intergroup Conflict
The Social Identity Theory of Intergroup Behaviour , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 1979
Donna D Bobek , Robin W Roberts , John T Sweeney
The Social Norms of Tax Compliance: Evidence from Australia, Singapore, and the United States
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 64 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
420,621
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies