Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
All Car Taxes are Not Created Equal: Evidence from Germany

USAEE Working Paper No. 20-474

47 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2020

Anna Alberini

University of Maryland - Department of Agricultural & Resource Economics

Marco Horvath

RWI - Leibniz Institute for Economic Research

Date Written: October 8, 2020

Abstract

Economic theory suggests that the environmental externalities created by driving cars can be corrected by imposing taxes. In this paper we focus on one possible such tax, namely an annual registration fee that grows with the CO2 emissions rate of a vehicle, of the kind adopted in recent years in countries with important car markets, including Germany. We ask three research questions. First, how effective is this type of tax at redirecting new cars towards models with lower emissions rates? Second, are these effects stable over time? Third, when new information is issued about the true CO2 emissions rates of cars, how does the car market process that information? We use monthly new car sales figures at a very disaggregated level from Germany from Jan 2011 to March 2019, a period during which the tax, which is relatively modest, was revised three times. With the first two revisions the threshold above which a car's emissions are penalized was tightened; with the third, it is the car's emissions rate that changes, due to the adoption of a new testing procedure, the WLTP. We find that, overall, the elasticity of new car sales with respect to the tax is low (-0.06). Focusing on specific periods around the time of the tax revisions results in higher estimated tax elasticities (-0.12 to -0.31), and efforts to match cars with emissions rates just below the threshold with similar vehicles just above the thresholds even stronger elasticities (-0.122 to-0.563, depending on the period). When we separate the tax amount into the previous tax plus the shock due to the switch to the WLTP test procedure, we find that the market is insensitive to the tax shock, but processes fully the corresponding change in the fuel economy of the vehicle. Much literature has focused on whether consumers discount very heavily or neglect the future costs of owning a car, compared to the price they pay for it. We find that even within future costs, some appear to be more salient than others.

Keywords: Annual circulation tax; CO2 emissions rate; New car sales; Salience; Fuel economy

JEL Classification: H23, L62, Q48, Q54

Suggested Citation:

Alberini, Anna and Horvath, Marco, All Car Taxes are Not Created Equal: Evidence from Germany (October 8, 2020). USAEE Working Paper No. 20-474, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3707822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3707822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
481,321
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies