Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Wealth Tax Kill Jobs?

IZA Discussion Paper No. 13766

35 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Marie Bjørneby

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Simen Markussen

University of Oslo - Ragnar Frisch Centre for Economic Research

Knut Røed

University of Oslo - Ragnar Frisch Centre for Economic Research

Abstract

Fueled by increasing inequality and rising fiscal deficits, the interest in wealth taxation has increased over the last years, both in the public debate and in academia. Yet, knowledge about the behavioral effects of a wealth tax is limited. We utilize rich Norwegian register data and a series of tax reforms implemented between 2007 and 2017 to study how a net wealth tax imposed on owners of small and medium sized businesses affects their firms' investment and employment decisions. Identification of causal effects is based on a generalized difference-in-differences strategy.We find no empirical support for the claim that a moderate wealth tax adversely affects investments and employment in firms controlled by the taxpayers. To the contrary, our results indicate a positive causal relationship between the level of a household's wealth tax and subsequent employment growth in the firm it controls. The rationale behind this result appears to be that the tax value of a given wealth can be reduced by being invested in a non-traded firm, and that this incentive becomes stronger the higher is the wealth tax.

Keywords: labor demand, capital taxation, wealth tax, investment

JEL Classification: H21, J23, G11

Suggested Citation:

Bjørneby, Marie and Markussen, Simen and Røed, Knut, Does the Wealth Tax Kill Jobs?. IZA Discussion Paper No. 13766, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3708628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Adelino , A Schoar , F Severino
House Prices, Collateral, and Self-Employment
Journal of Financial Economcis , volume 117 , p. 288 - 306 Posted: 2015
A B Atkinson
Inequality. What Can Be Done? Posted: 2015
S Bastani , D Waldenström
How Should Capital be Taxed?
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , p. 812 - 846 Posted: 2020
H Berglann , E Moen , K Røed , J F Skogstrøm
Entrepreneurship: Origins and Returns , volume 18 , p. 180 - 193 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
168,642
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies