Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressive Tax Avoiders: U.S. Multinationals Shifting Domestic Earnings to Zero

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Tiana Lehmer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 26, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether U.S. multinational corporations shift income overseas to the point of recording domestic pretax earnings around zero. We label firms with near-zero domestic earnings “Small” firms, and present evidence that Small captures targeted income shifting that minimizes worldwide and domestic current taxes. Because shifting essentially all income out of the U.S. represents a very aggressive form of international tax planning, Small firms represent an important margin for understanding the income shifting of U.S. MNCs. We find that firms facing tax incentives to shift income and firms with greater income shifting ability are more likely to report near-zero domestic earnings. In addition, investors value the earnings of Small firms higher than that of other U.S. multinational firms, conditional on overall profitability, suggesting that, on average, investors hold a positive view of income shifting to the point of recording domestic earnings around zero.

Keywords: Income shifting; tax incentives; pretax earnings; U.S. multinationals; domestic earnings

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Novia (Xi) and Lehmer, Tiana, Aggressive Tax Avoiders: U.S. Multinationals Shifting Domestic Earnings to Zero (September 26, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
C Austin , R Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Barth , S Cahan , L Chen , E Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
241,038
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies