Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ICT and Tax Compliance: An Examination of the Policy, Laws and Administration

Posted: 9 Dec 2020

Chinenye Nwachi

Redefining the Future Global Foundation

Date Written: October 15, 2020

Abstract

Nigeria has both low tax collection and low tax effort, the latter indicating that tax revenues are below potential level and this due to poor tax system. There is considerable potential to increase tax revenue in Nigeria. Such an increase is not only possible but also desirable. There are many problems that tax authorities and tax payers’ encounter, which suggest why many turn to technology solutions to help address inefficiencies in the current tax system and/or processes, to ensure greater accuracy or insights and mitigate potential risks. Due to the bureaucratic structure of government which is costly to manage with little or no result, tax authorities as an agency of government are turning to e-government led solutions like electronic tax filing (e-filing) based on the arguments that it enhances the delivery of public services and fiscal profundity without incurring costly recurring overheads. Hence, Integrated Information Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure backbone in Nigeria is a key foundation necessary for the successful implementation of other foundations and pillars. It seeks to provide the integrated infrastructure backbone required to enable cost effective delivery of ICT products and services such as revenue collection for businesses and other stakeholders. There is underutilization of ICT systems in the Nigerian taxation systems despite the benefits it offers. This research presents a conceptual framework via ICT for developing more effective approaches to tax reform and compliance. It examines how the use of ICT has modernized Tax administration procedures, improved revenue collection and influenced tax compliance. The study established that there was a positive attitude by clients towards electronic taxation. The study concluded that ICT actually influences tax compliance and it has also significantly increased the ease of doing business.



Keywords: Electronic Tax, Tax Compliance in Nigeria, Information Communication Technology

Suggested Citation:

Nwachi, Chinenye, ICT and Tax Compliance: An Examination of the Policy, Laws and Administration (October 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3712170
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies