Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Taxes on Where Superstars Work

66 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2020 Last revised: 28 Mar 2023

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Kenneth Tester

University of Exeter - Tax Administration Research Centre (TARC)

Date Written: October 24, 2020

Abstract

Prior studies show that taxes matter for the residential locations of high-income earners. But, states raise a significant share of revenue from nonresidents. Using variation in state tax rates, we provide causal evidence on the effect of the net-of-tax rate on the location of labor supply for professional golfers. State taxes induce high-income earners to shift employment to low-tax states without a residence change. The elasticity of working in a state is 0.34, and consistent with superstar phenomenon, increases with earnings. Our results suggest a novel margin of mobility responses for top-earners: the spatial relocation of labor supply by nonresidents.

Keywords: superstars, taxing the rich, avoidance, mobility, high-frequency labor supply

JEL Classification: J22, J61, H26, H73, R50

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Tester, Kenneth, The Effect of Taxes on Where Superstars Work (October 24, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3718441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3718441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Ole Agersnap , Owen Zidar
The Tax Elasticity of Capital Gains and Revenue-Maximizing Rates
AER: Insights , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 416 Posted: 2021
David R Agrawal , Dirk Foremny
Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 101 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
David R Agrawal , Kenneth Tester
Data and Code for: State Taxation of Nonresident Income and the Location of Work
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy Posted: 2022
David R Agrawal , Kirk J Stark
Will the Remote Work Revolution Undermine Progressive State Income Taxes
Virginia Tax Review , volume 42 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
349,147
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies