Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exercising Implicit Transfer Pricing Options, Arm's Length Pricing, and Economic Shocks

Posted: 1 Nov 2020 Last revised: 24 Nov 2020

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

This note suggests an alternative, potentially arm's length explanation for additional support for subsidiaries by parent and other group companies in response to sudden extreme economic shocks (such as COVID), namely the judicious exercise by the subsidiaries of their existing implicit transfer pricing options.

To illustrate with an example, suppose that Subsidiary X is half-way through a 10% p.a,10-year loan from Parent Y, benchmarked at issue as well within an arm's length range of acceptable independent comparators. Then, after a sudden economic shock (such as COVID) the loan rate is reset by the Parent Y in agreement with Subsidiary X to 2% per year for the rest of the term of the loan. This could be interpreted, under the proposed implicit transfer pricing option approach, as reflecting an additional 8% payoff per year from Parent Y to Subsidiary X under an implicit insurance option, originally sold by Parent Y and owned by Subsidiary X as a bundled part of the whole intercompany loan package.

If the prospect of the forcing shock and payoff under such an implicit transfer pricing option, at the date of inception of the loan, was very small, approximately zero, then the equilibrium fair market annual premium for this insurance option, measured in basis points per year could also be very small and close to zero, and in fact swamped by and insignificant when compared with the loan headline rate of return. This in turn could mean that the same loan package with and without the implicit transfer pricing option would still fall well within the same arm's length pricing range, and arguably the extreme a priori unlikelihood of the option ever being exercised could justify the implicit transfer pricing option being covered by a general background understanding only and so implicit, implied rather than explicit contractual terms.

This would then leave the question of whether such a lender would have included and been understood to have included such bundled optional insurance in a loan to such a borrower, if acting at arm's length? This would of course be a case-by-case and fact specific question, but the recent history and prevalence of retail PPI insurance indicates that there can be an appetite for this both amongst lenders and borrowers at arm's length.

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length pricing, implicit options, PPI

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Exercising Implicit Transfer Pricing Options, Arm's Length Pricing, and Economic Shocks (October 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3719442
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies