Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Realize, or Not to Realize? Capital Gains Tax and Portfolio Choice

7 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

James White

Elm Partners

Victor Haghani

Elm Partners

Date Written: November 2, 2020

Abstract

The central question addressed in this note is whether it is better to sell (and re-purchase) appreciated assets now and pay today's long-term capital gains tax rate, or wait to realize gains in the future and pay a likely higher capital gains tax rate. The authors argue that a framework based on maximizing expected risk-adjusted wealth should be the preferred method for answering some of the important questions arising from the interaction of taxes and investing. Investment theory holds that in a world of efficient markets, random walks and no taxes, horizon shouldn't materially affect many types of investment decisions. However, as soon as tax enters the picture, horizon in many situations becomes the single most important input an investor needs to think about. For investors with long horizons and moderate-size unrealized capital gains, it will usually make sense to defer realization even if the investor expects the tax rate to jump by 20 percentage points. Surprisingly, at intermediate time horizons, the optimal decision can be to realize some, but not all, of the unrealized gains. Investment horizon isn't the only critical input, and the interaction of all the relevant variables puts the development of a generic rule-of-thumb out of reach.



Keywords: capital gains tax, cgt, tax horizons, portfolio value, tax calculator, realizations, realized gains, unrealized gains

JEL Classification: B12, B16, B20, C00, C10, C11, C50, C57, C73, D03, D81, D83, E00, G00, G02, G11, G12, G14, G17, G23

Suggested Citation:

White, James and Haghani, Victor, To Realize, or Not to Realize? Capital Gains Tax and Portfolio Choice (November 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
• Domar , D Evsey , Richard A Musgrave
Proportional Income Taxation and Risk-Taking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 58 , p. 388 - 422 Posted: 1944
Crossref
• Feldstein , Martin
Capital Taxation Posted: 1983
Crossref
• Feldstein , Martin
The Effects of Taxation on Risk Taking
Journal of Political Economy , volume 77 , issue 5 , p. 755 - 764
Crossref
• Haghani , James Victor , White
How Much Should the Tax Tail Wag the Asset Allocation Dog Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,094
RANK
451,566
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies