Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocating Tax Transition Risk

73 Tax Law Review 157 (2020)

UC Hastings Research Paper Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2021 Last revised: 25 Jan 2022

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: August 20, 2020

Abstract

The enactment of sweeping tax changes in late 2017 by Republicans without any bipartisan support and the calls by Democrats to reverse those changes (and make more) when they regain political power create an unstable tax landscape that is challenging for taxpayers who are trying to make economic decisions that are affected by tax law. One strategy for grappling with this instability and uncertainty is for taxpayers to use contracts to allocate the economic benefits and burdens of a possible future tax law change among themselves. The literature says almost nothing about this contract-based strategy for managing tax transition risk. This gap is surprising because (a) the leading view on tax transition policy argues that taxpayers should account for the risk of tax law changes the same way they take other market risks into account when making decisions, and (b) private contracting is a well-accepted method for addressing market risks. To fill this gap, this Article uses four case studies—involving derivatives, credit agreements, municipal bonds, and merger agreements—to demonstrate that taxpayers are using tax transition risk-shifting contracts and to illustrate how this risk-management strategy varies. This Article then discusses three implications of this study. First, this Article predicts that private contracting to allocate tax transition risk, which is a potentially useful strategy any time an economic decision is a function of tax law, will increase when the political dynamic creates uncertainty about the stability of tax laws and could even include tax transition insurance and tax change derivatives. Second, this Article makes policy recommendations about the use of tax transition risk-shifting agreements, arguing that these agreements are most likely to be normatively desirable when sophisticated parties contract with each other to manage large tax transition risks well enough to proceed with social-welfare-enhancing transactions, other market mechanisms for managing transition risk fail to satisfy taxpayers’ risk preferences, and this Article’s recommendations are followed to minimize the problems these agreements could otherwise pose. Third, this Article explains how an understanding of tax transition risk-shifting contracts should inform the tax transition policy debate.

Keywords: tax, tax law, tax transitions, legal transitions, change in tax law, tax transition risk, risk allocation, private contracting

JEL Classification: K34, K12

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., Allocating Tax Transition Risk (August 20, 2020). 73 Tax Law Review 157 (2020), UC Hastings Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Kaplow
, volume 11
Hasen
, volume 10
Shaviro
More specifically, for policy (as opposed to accounting) changes, Shaviro would allow the imposition of retroactive taxes and would deny transitional relief. Id. at 101. In his book, Shaviro also endorsed a norm against the imposition of nominally retroactive taxes
J. Contemp. Legal Issues , volume 229 , issue 10 Posted: 2003
Shaviro
, volume 10 , p. 64 - 91
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
444,235
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies