Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Contract, Tax Fairness, and Aggressive Avoidance

26 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Henk Vording

Leiden University - Leiden Law School; Peking University - Peking University Law School

Date Written: November 5, 2020

Abstract

The choice of tax bases (income, consumption, or some pragmatic hybrid) used to be an important question of normative tax theory. It is suggested here that the choice should be based on the current desire to reduce “aggressive” tax planning behaviour. I.e., if tax avoidance is a growing concern, taxes on (personal and corporate) income are not ideally suited to address that concern. The argument is supported by reference to social contract theory, as a mode of thought that allows us to discuss how sensible people would choose their tax rules and norms.

Keywords: Social contract theory; tax fairness; tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Vording, Henk, Social Contract, Tax Fairness, and Aggressive Avoidance (November 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3725674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Proposals in the United States: A Tax Policy Discussion of Fundamental Tax Reform , p. 2095 - 2185 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Thomas Hobbes , Leviathan , Routledge , Xxx Chapter
For what reason is there, that he which laboureth much, and sparing the fruits of his labour, consumeth little, should be more charged, then he that living idlely, getteth little, and spendeth all he gets
John Locke
Second Treatise of Government: An Essay Concerning the True Original, Extent and End of Civil Government Posted: 2014
Cockfield argues that Locke would or should have preferred a consumption tax on freedom grounds. I think his attempt fails, but his analysis can be considered a thorough (though implicit) discussion of Rawls' sympathy for a consumption tax. Arthur Cockfield, Income Taxes and Individual Liberty: A Lockean Perspective on Radical Consumption Tax Reform
South Dakota Law Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 8 - 71 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
136,211
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies