Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Maturity of EU Corporate Tax Law: A Principle-Based Legislation in the EU Context?

Rivista di diritto finanziario e scienza delle finanze 2020 - Vol. LXXIX, , issue no. 2, part II

51 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2020

Ricardo Garcia Anton

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Date Written: November 6, 2020

Abstract

This contribution makes the attempt to elaborate a diagnosis on the maturity of the EU corporate tax, as the result of the interplay between negative and positive integration. To accomplish this task, the contribution makes recourse to the concept of “Principle-Based Legislation” (“PBL”), which stems from the Dworkin’s distinction between rules and principles. Importing this concept to an scenario of economic integration offers an insightful benchmark. In more than 60 years of the EU, the focus of the integration has switched from the creation of the internal market to the protection of internal market, which is currently identified with the protection of domestic tax bases as a result of the BEPS measures. Therefore, principles such as neutrality and territoriality are constantly competing into a malleable notion of internal market. The protection of the internal market is channelized through the principle of territoriality, which is linked to the prohibition of abusive practices derived from the Danish Cases (N Luxembourg 1 and T Danmark). Protecting the internal market undermines the principle of neutrality. The dialectic battle between neutrality and territoriality damages the resilience of the EU corporate tax system under 3 prongs: lack of coordination, the progressive elimination of the distinction between Primary and Secondary law and distorting bilateral solutions in DTCs. In the author’s view, reinforcing neutrality not only becomes crucial to strength our EU corporate tax system, but also becomes the necessary foundations to build up the long-desired EU taxes. In the forthcoming years, we would see whether the pendulum swings again toward neutrality, which is baptized by the Court in the judgment Bevola as the EU ability to pay principle.


Keywords: EU corporate tax law

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Anton, Ricardo and Garcia Anton, Ricardo, Testing the Maturity of EU Corporate Tax Law: A Principle-Based Legislation in the EU Context? (November 6, 2020). Rivista di diritto finanziario e scienza delle finanze 2020 - Vol. LXXIX, , issue no. 2, part II, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3726084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Weber D See , Eu Beps
Taxing Low-taxed non EU Income: Think Twice
Kluwetaxblog Posted: 2016-02-11
See Ruding Report
Crossref
Océ Van Der Grinten Posted: 2003-09-25
Tenore M
The Parent-Subsidiary Directive
Introduction to European Tax Law on Direct Taxation Posted: 2016-03-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
552,835
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies