Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Internal Costs of VAT Compliance: Evidence From Australia and the United Kingdom and Suggestions for Mitigation

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 13, No 1, pp 158-182, 2015

25 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Kathrin Bain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Ann Hansford

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: November 9, 2020

Abstract

Existing literature has established the regressive nature of tax compliance costs, and in particular, the compliance costs associated with indirect taxes such as value added taxes (VAT) (known in Australia as Goods and Services Tax (GST)). Costs of compliance impact on the willingness of taxpayers to comply; they influence the relationship between taxpayers and the tax authority; and they also impact on the trust relationship in tax administration. The small business sector is a key player in the tax system and is critically important to maintaining the integrity of the system and cooperation between business and the revenue authority.

This article focuses on one specific aspect of tax compliance costs: the internal (time) costs of compliance borne in the small business sector in relation to VAT/GST. It notes how such compliance costs vary significantly between Australia and the United Kingdom (UK), both of which have been the subject of recent detailed analysis. The article examines possible causes for the variations in internal tax compliance time spent on dealing with the VAT/GST that are evident in these comparable regimes. If certain design features of a VAT/GST system trigger compliance costs, changes to the design that might alleviate those costs should be considered.


Keywords: VAT compliance costs, tax compliance, taxation, VAT/GST

Suggested Citation:

Bain, Kathrin and Walpole, Michael and Hansford, Ann and Evans, Christopher Charles, The Internal Costs of VAT Compliance: Evidence From Australia and the United Kingdom and Suggestions for Mitigation (November 9, 2020). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 13, No 1, pp 158-182, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Oecd
Consumption Tax Trends 2012: VAT/GST and Excise Rates, Trends and Administration Issues Posted: 2012
Ato
Cash and non-cash accounting', Fact Sheet for businesses with a GST obligation Posted: 2013
USD $1.73 million, converted using World Bank PPP as shown in Table 3
USD $2.05 million, converted using World Bank PPP as shown in Table 3
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
699
RANK
456,685
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies