Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development and Testing of a Diagnostic Tool for Assessing VAT Compliance Costs: Pilot Study Findings

eJournal of Tax Research Vol 16, No 3, pp. 620-654, 2019

35 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Richard Highfield

UNSW Sydney

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This article presents the findings of a pilot research project designed to evaluate the merits of a prototype diagnostic tool for gauging the nature and likely overall incidence of value added tax (VAT) compliance costs at the country level, and to assess its use in comparative cross-country assessments to promote reform. The project was conducted across 13 countries, representing a mix of advanced and developing economies from all continents. Drawing on feedback from participants in the project, the findings appear broadly aligned with community and government expectations, and participants were generally of the view that the tool displays merit in assessing the likely aggregate (or relative) VAT compliance burden and its main drivers. The VAT diagnostic tool survey undertaken as part of the pilot also sought to gather insights into the degree of government and institutional recognition and attention being given to address tax compliance costs as a means of gauging a sense of the ‘maturity’ of each country’s approach to compliance burden management, which was found to be weak in a number of the participating countries.

Keywords: Value-added tax, taxation, tax compliance costs; VAT and GST, diagnostic tool, compliance burden management

Suggested Citation:

Highfield, Richard and Evans, Christopher Charles and Walpole, Michael, The Development and Testing of a Diagnostic Tool for Assessing VAT Compliance Costs: Pilot Study Findings (2019). eJournal of Tax Research Vol 16, No 3, pp. 620-654, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Michael D'Ascenzo
Modernizing the Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
Pages: 22 Posted: 20 May 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Bain , M Walpole , Hansford , Evans
The internal costs of VAT compliance: Evidence from Australia and the United Kingdom and suggestions for mitigation
eJournal of Tax Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 158 - 182
Get out of your own way: Unleashing productivity (Building the lucky country #4 Posted: 2014-10
Crossref
J &amp; Douglas , A Pejoska
Regulation and small business', Economic Roundup paper, Australian Treasury Research Institute Posted: 2017-08-28
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
RANK
880,951
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies