Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Personal Capital Gains in Australia: Causes of Complexity and Proposals for Reform

Australian Tax Forum, Vol 19 No 3, pp 371-432, 2004

62 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2021 Last revised: 16 Feb 2021

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

This paper reports upon one aspect of a broader study into the impact of tax design on the compliance costs of the tax system. The focus of this paper is on a survey of Australian tax practitioners which was conducted in order to establish their attitudes to compliance cost issues relating to the Australian regime for taxing the capital gains of individuals. The outcomes of this survey directly support the contention of the broader study that the compliance burden faced by personal taxpayers is directly influenced by the design of the Australian capital gains tax ("CGT") regime.

Part One of the paper is concerned with background and context It provides an overview of the nature and impact of the Australian personal CGT regime, and identifies the literature that exists that relates to the compliance costs of personal CGT taxpayers.

Part Two provides details of the Australian study. Over 300 Australian tax practitioners were surveyed in order to identify and evaluate some of the factors that drive CGT compliance costs. Four major findings emerge from the survey. In the first place, CGT compliance costs are significant, on a number of comparative measures. Secondly, they derive primarily from the complexity of the legislative provisions, combined with the frequency of legislative change. Thirdly, recent legislative changes have done little to improve the position. And finally, they are a major concern for practitioners. A number of other findings emerge which are reported in the paper.

Part Three of the paper considers the implications of the study. The results of the the survey, combined with a policy and technical analysis of the legislative provisions, lead to a set of proposals for reform which may help to develop a simpler CGT regime in Australia. These include the phasing out of the "grandfathering" exemption together with the introduction of an annual exempt amount, and the rationalisation of business concessions in Australia. More importantly, the paper seeks a more principled approach to the taxation of capital gains, and emphasises that legislative change can and should only be enacted with a full and clear understanding of the compliance cost implications of that change.

Keywords: capital gains tax, compliance cost, tax policy

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Taxing Personal Capital Gains in Australia: Causes of Complexity and Proposals for Reform (2004). Australian Tax Forum, Vol 19 No 3, pp 371-432, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Allers
Administrative and compliance costs of taxation and public transfers in the Netherlands Posted: 1994
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Co
The administrative and compliance costs of the federal sales tax system with a brief comparison to the retail sales tax system of Ontario Posted: 1985
K Asprey
Taxation review committee Posted: 1975-01
Taxation statistics Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
629
RANK
597,018
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies