Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Income Tax Reform in Australia: The Way Forward

Australian Tax Forum, Vol 21 No 3, pp 441-463, 2006

25 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Garry Addison

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Brian Andrew

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Paul Drum

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This paper provides a summary overview of the personal income tax–transfer reform debate in Australia. It attempts to employ a balanced approach to examine the,main issues and arguments put forward by various schools of thought with regard to tax reform. First, it explores in depth the meaning of tax reform and reaffirms that tax cuts are not necessarily tax reform. Secondly, it presents a brief diagnosis of Australia’s current personal income tax–transfer system. Thirdly, it surveys the tax theoretical literature as a guide to tax policy. Fourthly and finally, it discusses a variety of constraints and options for tax reform in Australia. It also outlines the three-stage approach (micro-simulation, Delphi study and surveying) to be adopted by the authors in their future tax reform studies.

Keywords: personal income tax, systematic reform, tax policy, taxation model

Suggested Citation:

Tran-Nam, Binh and Addison, Garry and Andrew, Brian and Drum, Paul and Evans, Christopher Charles, Personal Income Tax Reform in Australia: The Way Forward (2006). Australian Tax Forum, Vol 21 No 3, pp 441-463, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Year Book Australia
Taxation in Australia: Home truths and international comparisons , volume 347 Posted: 2003-04
B Andrew
Tax reform past due date
IntheBlack , volume 75 , issue 9 , p. 56 - 63 Posted: 2005
W Birkett
The Demand For, and Supply of, Taxation Education: A Delphi Study, Task Force for Accounting Education in Australia Posted: 1989
J M Buchanan
Public Finance in Democratic Process Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
RANK
785,592
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies