Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards Systemic Reform of the Australian Personal Income Tax: Developing a Sustainable Model for the Future

Australian Tax Forum, Vol 22 No 2, pp 13-45, 2007

33 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020 Last revised: 10 Feb 2021

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Brian Andrew

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

This paper provides an overview of a research project designed to develop a model of a personal income tax (PIT) system for Australia that is capable of commanding widespread expert and community support while still delivering the expected revenue flow and tax policy objectives that are expected from a PIT. In this way, the project seeks to inform and influence the contemporary debate about reform of the Australian PIT. The proposals developed from the project were derived using an innovative and iterative combination of research methodologies, involving micro-simulation, a Delphi technique and extensive surveys of taxpayers and tax practitioners.

The preferred model of the PIT system in Australia developed from the project proposes a broadening of the tax base through the elimination of three major concessions (the current tax free threshold, the 50% general discount currently given on capital gains and deductions for certain work related expenses currently available to personal taxpayers), off set by reductions in tax rates, an increase in the levels at which the Low Income Offset operates, the introduction of a capital gains tax annual exemption and the provision of a small annual tax credit in lieu of work related deductions. It is argued that these incremental changes to the current personal income tax system can be introduced on a broadly revenue neutral and sustainable basis, and can provide more than acceptable distributional outcomes. There are no adverse equity implications associated with the changes and potentially significant simplicity dividends. Moreover the reform provides efficiency gains in the form of reduced labour disincentives as a result of lower effective marginal tax rates (EMTRs) for low and middle income Australians.

The results of surveys recently conducted of 3,900 personal taxpayers and over 3,000 tax practitioners suggest that there is strong support for personal tax reform. The specific proposals developed in this project would be broadly acceptable to personal taxpayers, but there would be resistance from tax practitioners who perceive that the reforms could have a potentially adverse impact on the incomes generated from their tax practices

Keywords: personal income tax, systematic reform, tax policy, taxation model

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh and Andrew, Brian, Towards Systemic Reform of the Australian Personal Income Tax: Developing a Sustainable Model for the Future (2007). Australian Tax Forum, Vol 22 No 2, pp 13-45, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies