Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Too Rich to Rein In? The Under-Utilised Wealth Tax Base

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 11 No 3, pp 341-370, 2013

19 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Natalia Chatalova

Abacus Property Group

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Taxes on wealth have never been as popular or widespread as taxes on the other two major tax bases – income and expenditure. Virtually every country around the world uses income taxes and most also use expenditure taxes. These two tax bases account for the vast majority of tax revenue for most countries. On the other hand, wealth taxes, where they do exist, account for relatively small amounts of total tax revenue.

This article considers the use – or more often the under-use – of wealth taxes in developed and developing countries. It includes a discussion of different forms of wealth taxation together with the theoretical underpinnings and the practical problems that can arise when such taxes are implemented. Trends in different types of jurisdiction are analysed and both country-specific and more universal wealth tax policy changes are identified. Finally, some thoughts on the likely future
policy directions in wealth taxation are presented.


Suggested Citation:

Chatalova, Natalia and Evans, Christopher Charles, Too Rich to Rein In? The Under-Utilised Wealth Tax Base (2013). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 11 No 3, pp 341-370, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Oecd Tax Database
Revenue Statistics: Comparative Tables Posted: 2013-01
Crossref
Christer Silfverberg
The Swedish Net Wealth Tax -Main Features and Problems Posted: 2009
Christer Silfverberg
The Swedish Net Wealth Tax -Main Features and Problems Posted: 2009
Christer Silfverberg
The Swedish Net Wealth Tax -Main Features and Problems Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
865
RANK
388,855
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies