Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Contribution of Effective Marginal Tax Rates to Work Disincentives

Australian Tax Forum, Vol 22 No 3, pp 117-135, 2007

18 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Brian Andrew

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: November 9, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the problems faced by low and middle income earners as,a result of high effective marginal tax rates ('EMTRs'). It is primarily concerned with the negative impact of these high EMTRs on workforce participation. The paper,explores some of the reasons for high EMTRs, caused by the poor meshing of the,tax and transfer systems, and the implications of those high EMTRs. It identifies the benefits that could be achieved through reform of the tax system, but recognises that the EMTR problem cannot be resolved without a more fundamental reform of both the,tax and the welfare systems. This need for fundamental reform is illustrated through the plight of the single parent forced into the workforce as a result of recent changes to social security arrangements. The paper finally identifies an alternative approach, extensively used in some provinces of Canada, that may represent a more positive,way forward

Keywords: Marginal tax rates, Work Discentives, tax system, EMTR, taxation

Suggested Citation:

Andrew, Brian and Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh, The Contribution of Effective Marginal Tax Rates to Work Disincentives (November 9, 2020). Australian Tax Forum, Vol 22 No 3, pp 117-135, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727261
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
P Apps
Taxation and Labour Supply
Australian Tax Forum , issue 3 Posted: 2007
Michael D'Ascenzo
Modernizing the Australian Taxation Office (ATO)
Pages: 22 Posted: 20 May 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
G Beer
Work Incentives under a New Tax System: The Distribution of Effective Marginal Tax Rates in 2002
Economic Record , volume 79 , p. 14 - 25 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Buddelmeyer , P Dawkins , J Freebairn , K Guyonne
Bracket Creep, Effective Marginal Tax Rates and Alternative Tax Packages, Melbourne Institute in association with the Australian Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
785,592
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies