Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation Compliance Costs: Some Recent Empirical Work and International Comparisons

Australian Tax Forum Vol 14 No 2, 1998, pp 93-122

30 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Katherine Ritchie

Manukau Institute of Technology

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Date Written: 1998

Abstract

The paper reports on major empirical research into Australian compliance costs recently undertaken for the ATO. The research considers the total costs of taxpayer compliance with Federal
taxation in Australia in the 1994-95 year of income. It builds upon earlier research into incremental compliance costs, carried out for the ATO by the same ATAX research team.

The research utilises a survey of just over 10, 000 personal and business taxpayers, together with data provided by the ATO and other sources, to present a clear picture of the magnitude and distribution of compliance costs in Australia in the 1994-95 year of income. It takes into account not only the time and monetary costs expended on compliance, but also quantifies factors such as the value of the tax deduction available to taxpayers and the value of cash flow benefits (and sometimes costs) to taxpayers which can serve to offset taxpayer compliance costs.

The paper details the major outcomes of the research, and provides a comparison of the level of compliance costs revealed by this latest research with similar research carried out in Australia
and overseas.

Keywords: taxation, tax compliance, compliance costs, empirical research

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Ritchie, Katherine and Tran-Nam, Binh and Walpole, Michael, Taxation Compliance Costs: Some Recent Empirical Work and International Comparisons (1998). Australian Tax Forum Vol 14 No 2, 1998, pp 93-122, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies