Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The South African Tax System: Fit for Purpose?

Journal of Tax Administration. Vol 1 No 2, pp 26-56, 2015

31 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Sally-Ann Joseph

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Is the South African tax system ‘fit for purpose’? This article addresses this and related questions by considering the fiscal outlook in South Africa in comparison to OECD,,BRIICS and other developing countries. Trends are analysed from the perspectives of tax revenue, tax mix and tax administration. The approach adopted in this paper is neither,purely doctrinal nor empirical. Rather, it is analytical, practical and applied, effectively a ‘conspectus’ located within the broader comparative tax literature. The article suggests that South Africa has not recovered from the global financial crisis as readily as most developed countries, and that it also does not have much capacity to increase existing tax rates. Its current tax system is stretched to the point where further demands on existing tax bases could cause economic distortions and other systemic failures. Some sensible tax administrative reforms have already taken place, but more can be done to increase,capacity in the current bout of tax reform. Such measures could include broadening and,safeguarding the existing tax bases, improving tax compliance and tackling corruption.,An efficient and effective tax system can provide sustainable sources of revenue, assist economic growth and increase employment and alleviate income inequality through its,redistributive function. Although the system is not entirely ‘fit for purpose’ in its present form, the opportunities are there for South Africa to address its fiscal challenges.

Keywords: South African tax system, fit for purpose, taxation, tax revenue, tax mix, tax administration

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Joseph, Sally-Ann, The South African Tax System: Fit for Purpose? (2015). Journal of Tax Administration. Vol 1 No 2, pp 26-56, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
the efficiency and adequacy of tax collection (Gupta Posted: 2004
Domestic Resource Mobilization for Poverty Reduction in East Asia: South Africa Case Study Posted: 2010
R Ahmed , M Rider
Pakistan's Tax Gap: Estimates by Tax Calculation and Methodology Posted: 2008
J Aizenman , Y Jinjarak
Globalisation and Developing Countries -A Shrinking Tax Base?
Journal of Development Studies , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 653 - 671 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
231,675
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies