Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Barriers to Avoidance: Recent Legislative and Judicial Developments in Common Law Jurisdictions

Hong Kong Law Journal, Vol 37 No 1, pp 103-136

55 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2007

Abstract

Tax avoidance activity, like tax evasion, is neither unique to any one country nor a purely modern problem. It has been around, in varying degrees, wherever taxes have been levied. Many argue, however, that the scale of tax avoidance activity has grown significantly in more recent decades. They contend that an army of what Tanzi and Braithwaite have respectively called fiscal and moral termites has been eating away at tax revenue bases throughout the world in an unprecedented fashion over the last thirty or so years, and with increasing vigour in the last decade.

This paper explores the argument that some of the major common law jurisdictions face a greater threat than ever before, and that the integrity of the tax bases in those countries is being steadily eroded by sustained avoidance activity. The view is taken – hardly contentious – that there has been a growth in avoidance activity in recent decades.

The paper then considers some of the legislative, judicial and administrative responses to such growing threats. It is contended that the combined forces of the legislature, the judiciary and the administration have at their disposal a veritable battery of weapons that is more than capable of dealing with the onslaught of these so-called fiscal and moral termites.

Keywords: tax avoidance, common law jurisdictions, tax bases, tax planning

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Barriers to Avoidance: Recent Legislative and Judicial Developments in Common Law Jurisdictions (March 2007). Hong Kong Law Journal, Vol 37 No 1, pp 103-136, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3727268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Joint International Tax Shelter Information Centre Memorandum of Understanding, accessed at www.irs.gov and www.ato.gov Posted: 2006-10-27
Canada Australia , Agree
Establish Joint Task Force Posted: 2004-05-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
534
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies