Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Business and Tax Compliance Costs: A Cross-Country Study of Managerial Benefits and Tax Concessions

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 12 No 2, pp 453-482, 2014

31 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Ann Hansford

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

John Hasseldine

Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics

Philip Lignier

University of Tasmania

Sharon Smulders

University of South Africa

François Vaillancourt

Center for Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organization (CIRANO)

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Concern about the size and the regressive nature of taxation compliance costs for small businesses has prompted many governments to introduce special tax concessions and regimes for that sector of the economy. This article reports on exploratory research conducted in four countries (Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom) in 2010-11 utilising broadly similar survey instruments, designed to collect and collate data about the levels of compliance costs experienced by small businesses; to identify the extent (if any) to which compliance with tax obligations may have given rise to managerial benefits; and to evaluate the use and usefulness for the small business sector of special tax regimes designed to mitigate the burden of tax compliance. In spite of some data limitations it finds remarkably similar outcomes in all four countries: tax compliance costs remain high and regressive, and do not appear to be diminishing over time; many small businesses are aware of the managerial benefits, in terms of better decision making and management of financial information that derives from tax compliance, though few are able to place a value on those benefits; and legislated small business tax concessions do not appear to be making any difference to the burden of tax compliance in the three countries that were considered in relation to that issue.

Keywords: taxation, tax compliance costs, small businesses, tax concessions and regimes

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Hansford, Ann and Hasseldine, John and Lignier, Philip and Smulders, Sharon and Vaillancourt, François, Small Business and Tax Compliance Costs: A Cross-Country Study of Managerial Benefits and Tax Concessions (2014). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 12 No 2, pp 453-482, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Ahmed , V Braithwaite
Understanding small business taxpayers: Issues of deterrence, tax morale, fairness and work practice
International Small Business Journal , volume 23 , p. 539 - 568 Posted: 2005
M Allers
Administrative and compliance costs of taxation and public transfers in the Netherlands
Wolters-Noordhoff Posted: 1994
F Chittenden , Kauser , P Poutziouris
Tax regulation and small business in the USA
International Small Business Journal , volume 21 , p. 93 - 115 Posted: 2003
F Chittenden , Kauser , P Poutziouris
PAYE-NIC compliance costs: Empirical evidence from the UK SME economy
International Small Business Journal , volume 23 , p. 635 - 656 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
545,548
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies