Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance Costs in New Zealand: An International Comparative Evaluation

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, Vol 20, No 4, pp 339-361, 2014

25 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The focus of this article is on the burden imposed by all aspects of compliance with tax obligations in New Zealand. It explores the levels of research into tax compliance costs undertaken in New Zealand and the outcomes of that research, and compares this data with comparable international experience. It establishes that New Zealand has a sound track record of research into tax compliance costs, at least at the government level, and certainly so far as research into business tax compliance costs is concerned. The outcomes of that research also suggest that New Zealand compares favourably with many other developed countries including its OECD counterparts in terms of the compliance cost burden faced by business and non-business taxpayers.

Keywords: taxation, tax compliance, tax obligations, New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh, Tax Compliance Costs in New Zealand: An International Comparative Evaluation (2014). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, Vol 20, No 4, pp 339-361, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3729015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
See Inland Revenue
Crossref
Others Evans
Canada was also involved in the study. However, data limitations relating to the Canadian part of the study preclude its inclusion in this and subsequent comparisons
Evans Lignier , Tran-Nam
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
882
RANK
324,400
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies