Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compliance Costs of Taxing Capital Gains: Implications for New Zealand

New Zealand Journal of Tax Law and Policy, Vol 25, No 4, pp 381-408, 2019

28 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: November 14, 2019

Abstract

This article explores the tax compliance costs — those costs incurred by taxpayers or third parties, such as businesses, in meeting the requirements laid upon them in complying with a given structure and level of tax — that New Zealand could expect to encounter if a capital gains tax (CGT) were to be introduced. It recognises that a decision was made by the New Zealand Government in April 2019 not to proceed with a CGT, but also suggests that it is possible that a CGT may be back on the agenda at a future date, at which point the compliance cost implications will again be relevant. The compliance costs of CGT regimes are typically and anecdotally thought to be relatively high in comparison to the compliance costs imposed by other taxes, a view that clearly dominated much of the debate about the possible introduction of a CGT in the period to April 2019. However, the empirical evidence qualifies this conclusion in two important ways. Firstly, it notes that the CGT regime applies to a relatively small number of taxpayers compared to, say, the goods and services tax (GST) or personal or corporate income taxes (PIT or CIT). As a result, overall CGT compliance costs are not high relative to the compliance costs of other taxes. The second qualification is that the Australian CGT regime is often the source of concerns about high CGT compliance costs. However, a number of relatively unique Australian structural features have caused Australian CGT compliance costs to be higher than would normally be expected of a CGT regime. These high-cost structural features have been compounded by excessive and frequent changes to the legislative provisions in the 33 years since the regime was introduced, with resulting uncertainty and unpredictability in their operation. The article examines the CGT design features proposed in the Future of Tax: Final Report prepared by the Tax Working Group and published in February 2019 (the TWG Final Report). It concludes that overall the proposed design features suggest that the CGT compliance costs would not be unduly onerous. Most of the design features reflect international best practice and take the compliance burden into account wherever possible. A few will lead to higher compliance costs than might otherwise be the case. And for some it is impossible to evaluate the likely compliance cost impact.

Keywords: Tax Compliance, Taxation, compliance costs, CGT

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, The Compliance Costs of Taxing Capital Gains: Implications for New Zealand (November 14, 2019). New Zealand Journal of Tax Law and Policy, Vol 25, No 4, pp 381-408, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
496,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies