Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Tax Compliance Costs: Evidence from Australia

Tax Simplification, (edited Evans C, Krever R and Mellor P), Kluwer Law International, Amsterdam, pp 121-140; 2015

42 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2021

Philip Lignier

University of Tasmania

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The research project that is the subject of this chapter involved three separate surveys of more than 15,000 taxpayers selected from a national database of taxpayers provided by the ATO, targeted at three broad categories of taxpayers: personal (non-business) taxpayers; small and medium enterprises (SMEs) (annual turnover less than or equal to AUD 250 million); and large businesses (annual turnover exceeding AUD 250 million). The surveys focused on the taxation compliance burden imposed by federal (Commonwealth) and State taxes during the year ended 30 June 2012, and were conducted in Australia between November 2012 and February 2013. The surveys were the first independent large-scale surveys of tax compliance costs conducted in Australia since 1996 and since the introduction of the goods and services tax (GST, Australia’s value added tax) in 2000.

The remainder of this chapter is structured as follows. After a discussion of important conceptual issues (§8.02) and a brief description of the implementation of the surveys (§8.03), the results for each of the three categories of taxpayer (personal, SME and large business) are presented in separate sections (§8.04, §8.05 and §8.06 respectively). The chapter concludes (§8.07) by summarizing the outcomes of the study and discussing the implications in the context of the existing research in this area.

Keywords: taxation, tax compliance, compliance costs, empirical research

Suggested Citation:

Lignier, Philip and Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh, Measuring Tax Compliance Costs: Evidence from Australia (2015). Tax Simplification, (edited Evans C, Krever R and Mellor P), Kluwer Law International, Amsterdam, pp 121-140; 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Robert Haig
The Cost to Business Concerns of Compliance with Tax Laws
Mgmt. Rev , volume 24 , issue 11 Posted: 1935
Cedric Sandford
Hidden Costs of Taxation (Institute for Fiscal Studies Posted: 1973
See , Cedric Sandford , Michael Sandford , Godwin
Posted: 1981
Cedric Sandford , Michael Godwin &amp; Peter , Hardwick
Administrative and Compliance Costs of Taxation Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
610,038
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies