Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Promoting Vaccine Innovation

Ohio State Law Journal, Vol. 83, 2022

45 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2020 Last revised: 18 Mar 2022

Mirit Eyal

University of Alabama - School of Law

Ana Santos Rutschman

Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law; Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law

Date Written: December 18, 2021

Abstract

The scale of the humanitarian and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic provided insights into the landscape of vaccine development. The magnitude of the Coronavirus and its variants—over 260 million cases and more than five million deaths by early 2022—has called overdue attention to how we foster investment in the development of new vaccines against emerging pathogens. Vaccines serve both as cost-effective tools to prevent outbreaks of infectious diseases and as mechanisms to shorten their duration and lessen their socio-economic impact. Yet, absent a pandemic or other large-scale public health crisis, most types of vaccine research and development (R&D) remain largely untapped.

This Article argues that ongoing legal and policy debates about the problem of incentivizing robust levels of vaccine innovation routinely fail to acknowledge the role that the tax system can play in this area. Historically, policymakers have attempted to promote investment in vaccine R&D through the use of traditional innovation levers. Of these traditional innovation mechanisms are intellectual property (“IP”) and non-IP policy tools that allocate proprietary price and reward successful R&D, respectively. Patents, grants, regulatory vouchers, and— to a lesser extent—prizes are the limited arsenal of innovation policies that incidentally also aim to instigate vaccine development. Much less attention, however, has been paid to the idiosyncratic hurdles of vaccine research and the role of fiscal policy in spurring investments in vaccine-specific R&D.

To fill this gap, this Article develops a general normative theory: the market-based characteristics of fiscal incentives make them especially well-suited to encourage investment in vaccine innovation, thereby contributing to increasing preparedness. Alas, we demonstrate that current design of tax incentives drives research away from vaccine and towards more profitable mainstream discoveries. Yet, when designed properly, fiscal apparatuses can offer several unique advantages in the vaccine context: the ability to harness private market mechanisms ex ante to economize on resources, administrative costs, regulatory capture, and informational problems. Building on this analytical premise, this Article offers a novel framework for optimal fiscal policy that spurs investment in vaccine R&D in a more predictable and streamlined fashion, while lowering risk associated with the vaccine development processes. Additionally, we illustrate how fiscal policy can be used as an effective tool for equitable distribution of the cost of developing vaccines for emerging diseases, which to date has never been fully explored. While focused on the tax system, our proposed approach is illustrative of, and contributes to, the growing call for “innovation policy pluralism” as defined by Professors Hemel and Ouellette in their work on the synergistic combination of different types of incentives to innovation. Finally, our proposed fiscal policy offers a blueprint for possible interventions in other traditionally underfunded areas in pharmaceutical research.


Keywords: COVID-19, Coronavirus, Vaccine, Tax, Health, Innovation, Patent, Intellectual Property, Pharmaceuticals, Orphan Drugs, Pandemic, Preparedness, Law, Policy

Suggested Citation:

Eyal, Mirit and Santos Rutschman, Ana, Promoting Vaccine Innovation (December 18, 2021). Ohio State Law Journal, Vol. 83, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3732567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
229 References
World See , Health Org
Infectious Diseases
Julia Belluz, 4 Reasons Disease Outbreaks Are Erupting Around the World, VOX
:00 AM) , volume 7 Posted: 2016-05-31
Bahar Gholipour
What 11 Billion People Mean for Disease Outbreaks
SCI. AM Posted: 2013-11-26
Ib Belluz
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,750
RANK
454,090
229 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies