Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience

The Accounting Review

50 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2021

Hanwen Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Song Tang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy; Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - Institute of Accounting and Finance

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Daoguang Yang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)-Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

In China’s political selection system, officials capable of growing local economies are rewarded with promotions. Eager to demonstrate economic achievements, newly appointed local leaders may raise tax revenues to expand fiscal expenditures on infrastructure projects. Against this backdrop, we study how political appointments influence local firms’ tax planning. Based on a sample of locally administered state-owned enterprises (SOEs), we find firms decrease their tax avoidance after new leaders take office. The political-turnover effect on these firms’ tax positions is more evident when the incoming leaders have more political clout over SOE managers, the incentives to divert resources are stronger, or politician–manager networks are present, and subsides following the launch of the anti-corruption campaign. Furthermore, firms with higher post-turnover tax payments subsequently receive more government contracts or subsidies. Overall, our findings suggest political incentives shape the tax-planning activities of SOE managers in a “two-way favor exchange” manner.

Keywords: Political cycle; Tax avoidance; Agency problem

JEL Classification: H26; E32; P26; G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hanwen and Tang, Song and Wu, Donghui and Yang, Daoguang, The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience (August 31, 2020). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A Ali , P Zarowin
The role of earnings levels in annual earnings-returns studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Crossref
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Bauer , J Fang , J A Pittman , Y Zhang , Y Zhao
How aggressive tax planning facilitates the diversion of corporate resources: Evidence from path analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research (forthcoming). Available at Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,269
RANK
10,280
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies