Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking Borders? The European Court of Justice and Internal Market

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 20-059

53 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2020

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Leonie Fischer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Kathrin Stutzenberger

University of Mannheim

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Upon more than 400 judgements on direct taxation, the case law of the European Court of Justice has considerably shaped Member States’ tax systems. Based on Member States’ tax law adjustments in the context of four landmark rulings on corporate income taxation, we analyse whether case law is a suitable instrument to eliminate tax distortions towards the realisation of a European internal market. Our analysis is based on effective tax burdens using the Devereux/Griffith methodology. Overall, we find that due to Member States’ mostly heterogeneous adjustments and varying levels of compliance, cross-border investment continues to be discriminated in some Member States following the Marks & Spencer and National Grid Indus judgements. In addition, differences in the general availability of the rules under scrutiny and design of related provisions, cross-country differences in effective tax burdens and hence distortions to the internal market might persist. We conclude that a comprehensive harmonisation of Member States’ tax systems by way of positive integration would be necessary to sustainably eliminate tax obstacles to cross-border business activities.

Keywords: European Court of Justice, Internal Market, Effective Tax Rates, Thin Capitalisation Rules, Cross-Border Loss Relief, Controlled Foreign Company Rules, Exit Taxatio

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Spengel, Christoph and Fischer, Leonie and Stutzenberger, Kathrin, Breaking Borders? The European Court of Justice and Internal Market (2020). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 20-059, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3732064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3732064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
992
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies