Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Cannabis on the Reservation

57 American Business Law Journal __ (Forthcoming 2020)

33 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2020

Mark J. Cowan

Boise State University -Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

American Indian tribes that enter the cannabis industry confront a multi-sovereign tax system that lacks certainty and horizontal equity. The complex interaction of state legalization and taxation of cannabis, federal tax law, the status of tribes as both governments and business enterprises, and the legal and tax landscape in Indian country can give tribes tax advantages and disadvantages compared to off-reservation cannabis dispensaries. This article analyzes these tax issues, examines them in the context of prior challenges posed by Indian gaming, and suggests reforms that address the tax inequities that can result from cannabis sales on Indian reservations.

Keywords: Cannabis, Native Americans, Indian Tribes, Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Cowan, Mark J., Taxing Cannabis on the Reservation (November 19, 2020). 57 American Business Law Journal __ (Forthcoming 2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3733936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3733936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
The IGRA requires states to negotiate gaming compacts with tribes in good faith Posted: 2018
Class III games, however, cannot be conducted on Indian reservations located in states that prohibit all gaming for all purposes Posted: 2018
Supra Bbc , Note
See supra Part III.B
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,518
RANK
261,451
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies