Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Most Low ETR Firms Avoid Paying Taxes?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

75 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021

Dane M. Christensen

University of Oregon

David G. Kenchington

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Rick Laux

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2020

Abstract

Evidence suggests a large proportion of profitable U.S. firms have low effective tax rates (i.e., an ETR between 0 and 10 percent). Despite widespread interest in how firms avoid paying taxes, we do not know how most firms attain low ETRs and whether they are primarily benefiting from benign or aggressive tax positions. Using a research design that explicitly examines low ETR firms, we predict and find that the majority are primarily benefiting from a benign tax position: large net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). We also find that large NOLs allow firms to persistently retain low ETRs year after year. In contrast, we find that multinationals and tax haven firms, which should have more opportunities for aggressive tax planning, have a lower probability of attaining a low ETR (relative to domestic and non-tax haven firms). Collectively, these findings suggest that the typical low ETR firm does not incur significant tax risk. Consistent with this, we find that low ETR firms accrue unrecognized tax benefits at a similar rate as firms that pay the statutory tax rate and do not experience higher future tax rate volatility. Overall, the results shed light on the profile of the average low ETR firm and provide evidence that the majority are utilizing large NOLs rather than aggressive tax planning.

Keywords: Taxes, Net operating loss carryforwards, Tax risk, Political economy

JEL Classification: H26, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Dane M. and Kenchington, David G. and Laux, Rick C., How Do Most Low ETR Firms Avoid Paying Taxes? (November 30, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3740161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J Blouin , J E Core , W Guay
Have the tax benefits of debt been overestimated
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 213 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D S Dhaliwal , S E Kaplan , R Laux , E Weisbrod
The information content of tax expense for firms reporting losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 164 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Deloitte
Financial reporting developments: A comprehensive guide to income taxes , volume 6 Posted: 2018-08-05
K Frank
Impact of a confounding variable on a regression coefficient
Sociological Methods and Research , volume 29 , p. 147 - 194 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
26 Citations
Casey M. Schwab , Bridget Stomberg , Junwei Xia
How U.S. GAAP Distorts the Effective Tax Rate As a Measure of Tax Avoidance
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2018
Crossref
Shane Heitzman , Rebecca Lester
Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Corporate Savings Policies
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 267 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Marcel Olbert
The Impact of Tax Shields on Bankruptcy Risk and Resource Allocation
Review of Accounting Studies · 66 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 30 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 1,088
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sebastian Eichfelder , Martin Jacob , Nadine Kalbitz , Kelly Wentland
How Do Corporate Tax Rates Alter Conforming Tax Avoidance?
Accepted at the European Accounting Review · 46 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2020 · Last revised: 12 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 238
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,352
RANK
158,949
26 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies