Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entity Structure and Taxes: An Analysis of Embedded Pass-Through Entities

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2021

Ashish Agarwal

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Shannon Chen

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Lillian F. Mills

The University of Texas at Austin; University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: August 16, 2020

Abstract

We examine the effect of pass-through entities embedded in corporate structures on tax avoidance, tax uncertainty, and tax noncompliance using unique, confidential tax return data that link corporations and pass-through entities together through Schedules K-1. We develop measures of the use of pass-through entities such as the number and “connectedness” of pass-throughs within the structure, the presence of loss pass-throughs or asymmetric allocations of such losses, and connections to entities external to the firm. We predict and find that these features are associated with lower effective tax rates, higher current year additions to tax reserves, and larger amounts of proposed IRS audit adjustments, controlling for probability of audit selection. This large-sample evidence could help the IRS understand how pass-throughs affect compliance and financial statements users anticipate the tax effects related to entity structure.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, tax uncertainty, tax noncompliance, entity structure

JEL Classification: H20, H26, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Ashish and Chen, Shannon and Mills, Lillian F. and Mills, Lillian F., Entity Structure and Taxes: An Analysis of Embedded Pass-Through Entities (August 16, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Abdel-Khalik
Hierarchies and size: A problem of identification
Organization Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 237 - 251 Posted: 1988
Crossref
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Amberger , S Kohlhase
International taxation and the role of organizational form choices for group structures of multinationals. Working paper Posted: 2017
Crossref
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
RANK
148,308
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies