Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Personal Income Taxes in Corporate Investment Decisions

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 44

77 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2021 Last revised: 29 Sep 2021

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Robert Vossebürger

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: September 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the role of personal income taxes (PIT) in corporate investment decisions. Since PIT reduce consumption and increase cost of labor, investment decisions can be affected because of the inevitable link of production input factors. Using data on PIT in 30 European countries and a large sample of private firms, we find that personal income taxes substantially reduce investment. The magnitude is comparable to the effect of corporate taxes. We confirm this finding using three within-country settings where we explore local variation in PIT. Further, the PIT–investment association is stronger for lower-income earners, for firms facing more elastic employees, for firms with a stronger capital-labor-relation, for durable goods industries, and for financially constrained firms.

Keywords: Personal income taxation, corporate investment

JEL Classification: H25, H32, J23, M54,J31

Suggested Citation:

Jacob, Martin and Vossebürger, Robert, The Role of Personal Income Taxes in Corporate Investment Decisions (September 28, 2021). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3744357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3744357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Daron Acemoglu , Amy Finkelstein
Input and technology choices in regulated industries: Evidence from the health care sector
Journal of Political Economy , volume 116 , p. 837 - 880 Posted: 2008
Daron Acemoglu , Pascual Restrepo
Automation and New Tasks: How Technology Displaces and Reinstates Labor
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2019
Sumit Agarwal , Shashwat Alok , Yakshup Chopra , Prasanna Tantri
Government employment guarantee, labor supply, and firms' reaction: Evidence from the largest public workfare program in the world
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 409 - 442 Posted: 2021
Anette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob , Roni Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,510
RANK
125,413
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies