Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Speed of Earnings Responses to Taxation and the Role of Firm Labor Demand

IZA Discussion Paper No. 13931

99 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Matthew Gudgeon

Boston University

Simon Trenkle

IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Abstract

This paper studies the speed at which workers' pre-tax earnings respond to tax changes along the intensive margin. We do so in the context of Germany, where a large discontinuity - or notch - in the tax schedule induces sharp bunching in the earnings distribution. We analyze earnings responses to two policy reforms that shift this notch outward. In a frictionless world, the workers that made up the excess mass at the old notch should all increase their earnings. While some of these workers indeed adjust their earnings rapidly, over 38% do not, and instead take several years to adjust. We propose that heterogeneity in firm labor demand plays a key role in generating the observed differences in the speed of workers' earnings responses and predict that adjustment will be quickest at growing firms. We test and find support for these demand-side effects in our linked employer-employee data.

Keywords: labor supply responses to taxation, earnings adjustment frictions, labor demand

JEL Classification: H24, H31, J22, J23

Suggested Citation:

Gudgeon, Matthew and Trenkle, Simon, The Speed of Earnings Responses to Taxation and the Role of Firm Labor Demand. IZA Discussion Paper No. 13931, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3747449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Patricia M Anderson
Linear adjustment costs and seasonal labor demand: evidence from retail trade firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 108 , issue 4 , p. 1015 - 1042 Posted: 1993
Melanie Arntz , Michael Feil , Alexander Spermann
Die Arbeitsangebotseffekte der neuen Mini-und Midijobs: eine ex-ante Evaluation Posted: 2003
Stefan Bach , Giacomo Corneo , Viktor Steiner
From bottom to top: the entire income distribution in Germany, 1992-2003
Review of Income and Wealth , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 330 Posted: 2009
Samuel Bentolila , Giuseppe Bertola
Firing costs and labour demand: how bad is eurosclerosis?
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 381 - 402 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
RANK
549,213
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies