Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of trust, power and tax compliance motivations among large businesses and their tax auditors

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021_01

28 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2021

Maximilian Zieser

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: January 2021

Abstract

This study investigates psychological determinants of tax compliance, particularly the predictions of the Slippery Slope Framework (SSF; Kirchler et al., 2008), among large businesses and their tax auditors. The SSF predicts that trust in tax authorities determines voluntary tax compliance and that the perceived power of tax authorities to detect and penalize tax evasion determines enforced tax compliance. While the predictions of the SSF have consistently been found in studies focusing on individual taxpayers, few studies have tested the SSF in the context of large businesses or focused on tax auditors and their perceptions of businesses’ tax compliance. Nevertheless, trust-based approaches to tax collection have gained popularity, with cooperative tax auditing programs directly targeting large businesses. Using questionnaire data from 366 representatives of large businesses operating in Austria and 208 Austrian tax auditors, I conduct structural equation models testing the applicability of the SSF among these groups. In the group of businesses, the predictions of the SSF appear to hold. However, significant associations between trust and voluntary compliance and power and enforced compliance are mainly driven by the female subsample. Among tax auditors, there is no significant association between trust and voluntary compliance when power is introduced as a control variable. Overall, results suggest limited applicability of the SSF in a large business context and a stark mismatch between businesses’ and tax auditors’ perceptions on tax compliance. More research is needed to investigate the difference in results between female and male business representatives and non-economic determinants of tax compliance in a large business context.

Keywords: Tax compliance, trust, power, corporate tax compliance, large businesses, tax auditors, cooperative compliance

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32, H83

Suggested Citation:

Zieser, Maximilian, Perceptions of trust, power and tax compliance motivations among large businesses and their tax auditors (January 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021_01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3761965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3761965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Deterrence and beyond: Toward a kinder, gentler IRS
Why people pay taxes , p. 311 - 329 Posted: 1992
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Changing the social norm of tax compliance by voting
Kyklos , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 171 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Alm , I Sanchez , A De Juan
Economic and Noneconomic Factors in Tax Compliance Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
RANK
277,436
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies