Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine and Corporate Tax Avoidance

Journal of Business Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021

Rong Ding

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Sushil Sainani

University of Liverpool

John Ziyang Zhang

University of Liverpool

Date Written: January 10, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we investigate the effect of the protection of trade secrets through the adoption of the inevitable disclosure doctrine (IDD) by US state courts on corporate tax avoidance. We suggest a positive impact of IDD adoption on tax avoidance because IDD adoption reduces information transparency by increasing the benefit of nondisclosure and, hence, creates greater opportunities for firms to engage in more aggressive tax avoidance activities. Based on a large sample of US firms between 1977 and 2011, we find a significant increase in tax avoidance for firms in states that have adopted the IDD, compared with firms in states that have not adopted it. We further show that the impact of the IDD on corporate tax avoidance is more salient in firms with lower internal information quality. Our findings have important implications for both investors and regulators.

Keywords: Trade Secrets; Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine; IDD; Tax Avoidance; Tax Planning

JEL Classification: H26; K2; M4

Suggested Citation:

Ding, Rong and Sainani, Sushil and Zhang, John, The Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine and Corporate Tax Avoidance (January 10, 2021). Journal of Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3764839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3764839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S D Dyreng , M Hanlon , E Maydew
Long-run corporate tax avoidance
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 82 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Scott Dyreng , Martin Jacob , Xu Jiang , Maximilian A. Müller
Tax Incidence and Tax Avoidance
Pages: 77 Posted: 15 Nov 2017 Last revised: 5 Aug 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Edwards , C Schwab , T Shevlin
Financial constraints and cash tax savings
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 859 - 881 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Gallemore , E Labro
The importance of the internal information environment for tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
318,636
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies