Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting Real about Taxes: Offshore Tax Sheltering and Realism’s Ethic of Responsibility

33 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2021

Gordon Arlen

Independent

Carlo Burelli

University of Genova

Date Written: January 20, 2021

Abstract

This paper tackles the issue of offshore tax sheltering from the perspective of normative political realism. Tax sheltering is a pressing contemporary policy challenge, with hundreds of billions in private assets protected in offshore trusts and shell companies. Indeed, tax sheltering produces a variety of empirical dilemmas that render it a distinctive challenge for global governance. Therefore, it is crucial for normative political theorists to confront this problem. A realist approach offers three distinct advantages. First, it relaxes the theoretical burden by starting from the real practice of tax evasion, rather than from an abstract theory of equality or justice. Second, realism’s focus on power and its acceptance of coercion open up new strategies for addressing the problem than would be allowed by theories with a stronger emphasis on consensus. Third, if politicians fail to pursue effective reform, realism’s ethic of responsibility provides clear political reasons for why they should be held accountable.

Suggested Citation:

Arlen, Gordon and Burelli, Carlo, Getting Real about Taxes: Offshore Tax Sheltering and Realism’s Ethic of Responsibility (January 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Acemoglu , J Robinson
Economic Origins of dictatorship and democracy Posted: 2006
G Arlen
Aristotle and the Problem of Oligarchic Harm: Insights for Democracy
European Journal of Political Theory , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 393 - 414 Posted: 2019
Crossref
L Bartels
Unequal Democracy: The Political Economy of the New Gilded Age Posted: 2009
J P Beetz , E Rossi
The EU's democratic deficit in a realist key: multilateral governance, popular sovereignty and critical responsiveness
Transnational Legal Theory , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 41 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
728
RANK
524,740
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies