Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Socio-economic Factors of Tax Compliance: An Empirical Study of Individual Taxpayers in the Dhaka Zones, Bangladesh

The Cost and Management, Volume 48, No. 6, November-December 2020

12 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2021

Dr Kazi Abdul Mannan

Southern Cross University, Australia; Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology

Date Written: December 31, 2020

Abstract

Tax compliance can be affected by many factors such as magnitude of compliance cost, the extent of penalty, perceived fairness of the tax system, awareness level of taxpayers and perceptions of government spending. The purpose of the study is identifying factors that affect compliance of individual income taxpayers in Bangladesh. The target population of the study is individual income taxpayers of the fifteen zones of Dhaka. The sample size is determined to 385 self-assessment assesse and 376 general procedure return submitted income taxpayers to which the questionnaire was distributed during the period of 1st December 2019 to 15th February, 2020. The results of the ordered logistic regression model reveal that the fairness, tax penalty and relationship with regard to taxpayer’s perception of government spending have positive and significant relationships with compliance. It also examines the effects of compliance decisions of referrals on others compliance decisions. The findings show a negative but insignificant relationship between them which implies that individual income taxpayer’s make their compliance decisions independent of others' decisions. Finally, the study having evaluated the effect of cost of complying with the tax law on tax compliance and concluded that there is a negative relationship between them implying that higher cost of compliance will lead to lower levels of compliance. Therefore, this paper suggests that maintaining tax fairness, optimum levels of penalty, spending the tax revenue on public development projects, keeping tax rates to the minimum as much as possible and keeping compliance costs to the minimum can enhance the compliance of taxpayers.

Keywords: Taxation, Compliance, Socioeconomic, Fairness, Tax Penalty, Tax Rate, Awareness

JEL Classification: E62, H20, H21, H24, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Mannan, Kazi Abdul, Socio-economic Factors of Tax Compliance: An Empirical Study of Individual Taxpayers in the Dhaka Zones, Bangladesh (December 31, 2020). The Cost and Management, Volume 48, No. 6, November-December 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
928
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,840
RANK
58,020
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies