Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayers’ and Tax Auditors’ Acceptance of Cooperative Automated Tax Audits

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-02

Posted: 25 Jan 2021 Last revised: 22 Sep 2025

Paul Brezina

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Maximilian Zieser

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: January 25, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the acceptance of “cooperative automated tax audits” (CATA) by taxpayers and tax auditors, and specifically the impact of the four features Data Privacy, Algorithm Transparency, Tax Certainty, and Independence from Tax Advisers. CATA allows taxpayers to upload detailed accounting data and receive a timely automatic assessment of the tax due. Following theories on the adoption of e-government services, algorithm aversion, and cooperative tax compliance, we hypothesize that the four features will increase taxpayers’ acceptance of CATA. Using an experimental survey among 331 taxpayers and 530 tax auditors, we analyze the impact of the four features on the acceptance of CATA and their effects on trust in and perceived power of tax authorities. Results indicate that taxpayers’ acceptance depends particularly on Tax Certainty, i.e., the automatic tax assessment cannot be overturned in a follow-up tax audit, but also on data privacy and transparency of the algorithm. Taxpayers perceive CATA as increasing tax authority’s power, and reducing its trustworthiness. In contrast, CATA, particularly when connected to the waiver of possible future tax audits, causes concerns for tax auditors, who react with lower acceptance and expect a loss in power to detect tax evasion. Overall, results suggest a stark mismatch between taxpayers’ and tax auditors’ perceptions about benefits and risks of CATA. Our study is among the first to investigate acceptance of digitalization in tax administration, and to include tax auditors’ views. Results are relevant to policymakers, suggesting that tax authorities should increase their digitalization efforts, incorporate safeguards, and educate about the importance of a trusting relationship between taxpayers and tax authorities.

Keywords: Tax administration, e-government, tax audit, tax compliance, data privacy, algorithm aversion

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32, H83, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brezina, Paul and Eberhartinger, Eva and Zieser, Maximilian, Taxpayers’ and Tax Auditors’ Acceptance of Cooperative Automated Tax Audits (January 25, 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3769337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3769337
 Not Available for Download
61 References
I M Al-Jabri , N Roztocki
Adoption of ERP systems: Does information transparency matter? Telematics and Informatics , volume 32 , p. 300 - 310 Posted: 2015
M Al-Jamal , E Abu-Shanab
Privacy Policy of E-Government Websites and the Effect on Users' Privacy. ICIT 2015 The 7th International Conference on Information Technology Bhubaneswar Posted: 2015-11-06
L Batrancea , A Nichita , J Olsen , C Kogler , E Kirchler , E Hoelzl , A Weiss , Torgler , J Fooken , J Fuller , M Schaffner , S Banuri , M Hassanein , G Alarcón-García , C Aldemir , O Apostol , D Bank Weinberg , I Batrancea , A Belianin , F D J Bello Gómez , M Briguglio , V Dermol , E Doyle , R Gcabo , B Gong , S Ennya , A Essel-Anderson , J Frecknall-Hughes , A Hasanain , Y Hizen , O Huber , G Kaplanoglou , J Kudła , J E Lemoine , S Leurcharusmee , T Matthiasson , S Mehta , S Min , G Naufal , M Niskanen , K Nordblom , E B Öztürk , L Pacheco , J Pántya , V Rapanos , C Roland-Lévy , A M Roux-Cesar , A Salamzadeh , L Savadori , V Schei , M Sharma , B Summers , K Suriya , Q Tran , C Villegas-Palacio , M Visser , C Xia , S Yi , S Zukauskas
Trust and power as determinants of tax compliance across 44 nations
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 74 Posted: 2019
P J Beck , P Lisowsky
Tax Uncertainty and Voluntary Real-Time Tax Audits
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 867 - 901 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,380
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies