Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Tax Reporting Accuracy: Determinants and Consequences

49 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2021

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Date Written: January 27, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and consequences of tax reporting accuracy. Firms are required to report tax expense each quarter based on their estimated annual effective tax rate (ETR). However, because of both bias and estimation error, these estimates do not always accurately represent annual ETR, creating variation in ETRs and earnings. This study documents several factors that are negatively associated with interim tax reporting accuracy but have no association with bias, suggesting that these factors significantly contribute to estimation error within the tax accounts. Consistent with a monitoring role over financial reporting, analyst following, institutional ownership, and auditor tenure are positively associated with interim tax reporting accuracy through reduced estimation error. In addition, estimated taxable income is more informative to investors for firms that have been more accurate in prior years, and investors respond more positively to beating analysts’ forecasts using a decrease in the tax rate when the firm has a record of accurate tax reporting.

Keywords: accounting for income taxes, market pricing, audit quality, analyst coverage, institutional investors, earnings management

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M40, M41, M42, H20

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik, Interim Tax Reporting Accuracy: Determinants and Consequences (January 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3774393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Adam J. Olson , Paul Ordyna
Boards’ Reactions to Problems in Accounting for Income Taxes
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 145 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
980
RANK
393,016
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies