Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adapting Taxation for the Digital Economy in Singapore

(2021) 27(1) Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin 1-10

Posted: 16 Feb 2021 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: January 29, 2021

Abstract

The advent of the digital economy has had profound implications for taxation. Tax systems have been forced to adapt as they become increasingly unsuited for the realities of modern commerce. While Singapore has largely followed international developments, particularly in the area of international taxation, it has often made numerous innovative policy decisions in line with its national interests. The various policy decisions which Singapore has made on taxing the digital economy span both international and domestic tax. In the area of domestic tax, the examples have been further divided by subject matter, like e-commerce, digital tokens, automation, and electronic instruments. Other jurisdictions will face similar choices when considering how to adapt their domestic tax systems for the digital economy, and the tax policy decisions made by a small, highly-open economy such as Singapore may provide insights to jurisdictions seeking to adapt their tax systems for the digital economy.

Keywords: Taxation Law, Digital Taxation, Singapore

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Adapting Taxation for the Digital Economy in Singapore (January 29, 2021). (2021) 27(1) Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin 1-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3775396
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
717
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies