Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer and Tax Avoidance: How Does Customer Geographic Proximity Affect a Supplier’s Tax Avoidance?

66 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021 Last revised: 18 Oct 2021

Feng Huang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Jie Gao

Western Sydney University

Date Written: September 6, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of the supplier’s customer geographic proximity on its tax avoidance. Based on a sample of 4,774 firm-year observations from 2009 to 2019, we find that the supplier’s customer geographic distance is positively associated with the extent of its tax avoidance. Moreover, this association is robust after studying potential endogeneity concerns. We further find that the information asymmetry and the detection risk are underlying mechanisms through which customer geographic proximity affects the supplier tax avoidance. Finally, additional analyses suggest that this positive relation is more pronounced in suppliers with high financial risk, suppliers in competitive industrial sectors, and suppliers operating in weak marketization environments. Overall, this paper from a novel viewpoint enlightens the real effect of customer geographic localities within-country of a supplier on its tax avoidance.

Keywords: Customer geographic proximity; Tax avoidance; Information environment

JEL Classification: H26, G30, L14

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Feng and Gao, Jie, Customer and Tax Avoidance: How Does Customer Geographic Proximity Affect a Supplier’s Tax Avoidance? (September 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3789371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3789371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Strategic reactions in corporate tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 Posted: 2019
T Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,808
RANK
328,705
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies