Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Third-Party Reporting and Cross-Border Tax Planning

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3792342

52 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2021 Last revised: 16 Jan 2024

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Anh Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 13, 2023

Abstract

In 2018, the European Union (EU) introduced a new mandatory reporting requirement for a wide range of cross-border tax arrangements (EU Directive 2018/922, also known as DAC6). Unlike prior corporate transparency initiatives, which put the reporting responsibility primarily on the taxpayers, this directive puts the initial reporting responsibility on the third-party intermediaries who are involved in the reportable arrangement at any stage during the planning and execution process. We exploit the adoption of DAC6 in the EU to examine the effectiveness of third-party reporting in curbing cross-border tax planning by multinationals. Using a difference-in-differences research design, we find that affected firms reduce income shifting (and report higher effective tax rates) in the post-adoption period. The reduction in income shifting is stronger for affiliates operating in countries without legal professional privilege exemptions and in countries where non-compliance penalties are higher. Our results highlight the importance of strong third-party reporting requirements in constraining cross-border tax planning.

Keywords: Cross-border tax planning; Third-party reporting; Mandatory disclosure regime; DAC6.

JEL Classification: H25, H26, L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S. and Hutchens, Michelle and Persson, Anh, Third-Party Reporting and Cross-Border Tax Planning (December 13, 2023). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3792342, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3792342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3792342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
M G References Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of public economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2021
Blackrock
Letter to HM Revenue & Customs RE: International Tax Enforcement: Disclosable Arrangements Posted: 2019-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
RANK
175,588
1 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies