Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Survival of the Tax Fittest: Path Dependence in Corporate Tax Planning

32 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2021

Jesse van der Geest

Tilburg University

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Date Written: February 24, 2021

Abstract

We investigate the potential of path dependence in explaining cross-sectional variation and persistence in efficient corporate tax planning. Variation in corporate tax planning among firms is far from fully understood. We propose that corporate tax planning strategies are path dependent. This implies that, once a business strategy is adopted, the range of tax strategies available to the firm is narrowed. If a more efficient tax planning strategy emerges, path dependence hampers firms from adopting that option, potentially resulting in tax planning inefficiencies. We compare new entrants to a market with incumbent firms and find that new entrants have an entrant’s tax edge; that is, new entrants are more efficient in tax planning compared to incumbent firms. Consistent with our predictions and path dependence theory, we find that the entrant’s tax edge is amplified when incumbent firms in the market are relatively inflexible. Finally, we explore whether new entrants use their tax edge as a competitive mechanism. We find new entrants only outperform incumbents in tax planning efficiency when competition is strong, and not when competition is weak.

Keywords: Path dependence, corporate taxation, flexibility, competition, strategy

Suggested Citation:

van der Geest, Jesse and Jacob, Martin and Peters, Christian P. H., Survival of the Tax Fittest: Path Dependence in Corporate Tax Planning (February 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3792055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3792055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W B Arthur
Positive feedbacks in the economy
Scientific American , volume 262 , issue 2 , p. 92 - 99 Posted: 1990
Crossref
W B Arthur
Increasing Returns and Path Dependence in the Economy Posted: 1994
Crossref
Hamilton Scott Asay , Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Jacob Thornock , Jaron H. Wilde
Consumer Responses to Corporate Tax Planning
Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 18-19 Pages: 41 Posted: 15 Aug 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
370,049
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies