Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Turnover Tax Collection Performance: A Case of West Shoa Zone Selected Districts

Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 10, No. 1; 2021

17 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021

Dejene Debebe Kibret

Ambo university

Date Written: February 26, 2021

Abstract

Factors affecting turnover tax collection performance. A case of West Shoa Zone selected districts. In 2017/18 the targeted revenue was 9041224 birr with the actual revenue being 7888536 birr (equivalent to 87.25% or a difference of 1152688) was existence of turnover tax collection gap. This study used mixed research approach and sampling (Systematic random, purposive sampling). Sample sizes 373 respondents selected and distributed questionnaires and interview. Data analyze by SPSS version 20 and factor analysis. Findings revealed that; employee qualification and manpower, taxpayer registrations, technology and information system, management commitment level and tax knowledge affects turnover tax performance positively. It was revealed that perpetuation tax fairness affects negatively where as compliance cost has a negative statistically insignificant. They concluded that the problems facing revenue administration office while collecting turnover tax. Based on the study recommended that revenue authority need to develop strategic management commitment, recruit sufficient number of employees and continues training qualification, maintaining tax fairness and equity, improve taxpayer identification and registration, increase number of users of Electronic Tax Register, extensive tax knowledge (awareness) creation programs update and maximize frequency tax audit effective on field compromising a priority task.

Keywords: Keywords: Revenue Collection Performance, Revenue Authority, West Shoa, Ethiopia

JEL Classification: no

Suggested Citation:

Debebe Kibret, Dejene, Factors Affecting Turnover Tax Collection Performance: A Case of West Shoa Zone Selected Districts (February 26, 2021). Accounting and Finance Research Vol. 10, No. 1; 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3795280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Y D Asrinanda
Effect of Tax Knowledge, Self Assessment System, and Tax Awareness on Taxpayer Compliance
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 8 , issue 10 , p. 539 - 550 Posted: 2018
Crossref
E Ayugi
ICT Implementation Challenges
Journal of Management , volume 22 Posted: 2015
E Baingana
Corporation tax administration and revenue performance of Uganda (Unpublished master thesis). Eastern Uganda revenue authority Posted: 2011
R M Bird
Improving Tax administration in Developing Countries
Journal ofTax Administration , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
217,471
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies