Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is VAT Administration System Efficient? The case of the Czech Republic

Central European Public Administration Review, 18(2), 2020

14 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Hana Zídková

Prague University of Economics and Business

Tomáš Vrána

Prague University of Economics and Business

Date Written: July 13, 2020

Abstract

This paper is focused on the efficiency of VAT collection under the standard credit invoice method. It discusses several approaches on how to evaluate the efficiency of the VAT system. The authors create their own indicator called the C-Coefficient that determines how many times must one unit of currency be checked by the financial authority to collect it into public budgets. The C-Coefficient is calculated from the data on VAT revenues and total VAT paid on all taxable supplies performed in the economy. The concrete results are shown for the Czech Republic for the period 2005 to 2018. The C-Coefficient reaches the values between 7.92 and 11.56, meaning that in the most efficient year (2018) the tax authorities had to inspect each collected CZK more than 7 times, whereas in the least efficient year (2008) they had to audit each collected CZK more than 11 times. Authors also discuss what influences the C-Coefficient. Among important factors are measures against VAT fraud, especially the specific reverse charge, as well as the number of VAT payers in the pro-duction and distribution chain and the difference between the average VAT rates applicable on final and intermediate consumption.

Keywords: C-Coefficient, definitive VAT system, final consumption, intermediate consumption, reverse charge, VAT efficiency, collection efficiency, Czech Republic

JEL Classification: H21, H26

Suggested Citation:

Zídková, Hana and Vrána, Tomáš, Is VAT Administration System Efficient? The case of the Czech Republic (July 13, 2020). Central European Public Administration Review, 18(2), 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3797707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R T Ainsworth
VAT Fraud as a Policy Stimulus -Is the US Watching? VAT Withholding, RTvat, and the Mittler Model
Boston University School of Law Working Paper , issue 8 Posted: 2011-11
Crossref
J Aizenman , Y Jinjarak
The Collection Efficiency of the Value Added Tax: Theory and International Evidence
The Journal of International Trade and Economic Development , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 391 - 410 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Alm , D Duncan
Estimating Tax Agency Efficiency: Estimating Tax Agency Efficiency
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 92 - 110 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Luca Barbone , Richard Miller Bird , Jaime Vázquez Caro
The Costs of VAT: A Review of the Literature
Case Network Reports No. 106/2012 Pages: 66 Posted: 16 Mar 2012 Last revised: 4 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
778,997
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies