Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recovering Lost Tax Revenue Through Taxation of Transnational Households

Berkeley Journal of International Law (BJIL), Vol. 34, 2016

57 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021

Ariel Jurow Kleiman

University of Southern California Gould School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2014

Abstract

This Article addresses the difficult problem of raising revenue in developing countries with significant outmigration. Migrant-source country governments face a unique policy dilemma because emigration reduces domestic human capital and tax revenue, but simultaneously improves outcomes for migrant workers and their families. Thus, governments must balance contrasting needs to maximize government revenue while protecting the welfare of migrant worker households. I argue that migrant-source countries may find a solution to this dilemma by taxing income remitted by migrant workers to family members remaining in their home countries. If constructed properly, a tax on remittance payments could raise revenue without burdening migrant workers or restricting their freedom to migrate.

In this Article, I push back against common anti-remittance-taxation arguments based on both normative and practical considerations, with a focus on improving and updating the taxation of families separated by national borders. After surveying the tax policy instruments available in remittance-receiving developing countries, I offer a menu of policy designs through which policymakers can leverage these important inflows. Proposed policies range from an ideal case of bilateral cooperation between host and home countries to a third-best regime that seeks to harness remittance gains indirectly via consumption and property taxation.

Keywords: migration, immigration, remittances, international development, economic development, tax policy, international tax policy

JEL Classification: K34, F22, F24, F63, F66, K37, O15, O23

Suggested Citation:

Jurow Kleiman, Ariel, Recovering Lost Tax Revenue Through Taxation of Transnational Households (May 1, 2014). Berkeley Journal of International Law (BJIL), Vol. 34, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3798744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
See Abdih
Barajas et al., supra note 59, and accompanying text
Barajas
at 6 (explaining that remittances may not lead to growth because they likely finance consumption rather than investment). 148. Perceptions of the fairness of the tax system are very important to constructing a functional tax system and ensuring broad compliance
Deborah A. Bräutigam, Introduction: Taxation and State-Building in Developing Countries, in TAXATION AND STATE-BUILDING IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 7 Posted: 2008
The benefit principle is a foundational concept and mainstay of tax policy design. See
Crossref
L. Rev ; Liam Murphy &amp; Thomas Nagel , The Myth , Ownership
For an enlightening discussion of the benefits principle and the political morality of taxation, see
TAXES AND JUSTICE , volume 16 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
659
RANK
614,410
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies