Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Initiatives for Tax Administration

69 UCLA Law Review 240 (2022)

University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 427

69 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021 Last revised: 22 Jul 2022

Young Ran (Christine) Kim

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: March 5, 2021

Abstract

A thriving body of literature discusses various legal issues related to blockchain, but often it mixes the discussion about blockchain with cryptocurrency. However, blockchain is not the same as cryptocurrency. Defined as a decentralized, immutable, peer-to-leer ledger technology, blockchain is a newly emerging data management system. The private sector—including the financial industry and supply chains—and the public sector—property records, public health, voting, and compliance, have all begun to utilize blockchain. Since more data is processed remotely, and thus digitally, the evolution of blockchain is gaining stronger momentum.

While scholarship on blockchain is growing, none of the scholarship has considered the impact of blockchain on the tax sector. This Article extends the study of blockchain to tax administration, evaluates the feasibility of incorporating blockchain within existing tax administrations, and provides policymakers with criteria to consider and some recommended designs for blockchain. Blockchain can enhance the efficiency and transparency of tax administration through its ability to deliver reliable, real-time information from many sources to a large audience. Further, a well-designed private consortium blockchain, evolved from the classic public blockchain, may effectively protect taxpayers' information. Potential areas that blockchain could enhance are payroll taxes, withholding taxes, value added taxes, transfer pricing, the sharing of information between federal, state, and local governments as well as countries.

This Article offers normative considerations for policymakers deliberating blockchain initiatives for tax administration, such as timeline, standardization, its integration with other systems, its limitations, and the accompanying legislation to regulate the government and the taxpayer’s rights and privacy. Those implications may resonate with a broader audience beyond tax policymakers.


Keywords: blockchain, distributed ledger, DLT, tax administration, tax compliance, digital, emerging technology, payroll tax, exchange of information, third-party reporting, transparency, tax privacy, taxpayer right

JEL Classification: K34, H2, H77, O3, O38,

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Ran (Christine), Blockchain Initiatives for Tax Administration (March 5, 2021). 69 UCLA Law Review 240 (2022), University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 427, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3798136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3798136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
Id
19; OECD, OECD BLOCKCHAIN PRIMER , volume 4 Posted: 2019
A N Hyperledger , Introduction , Hyperledger
, volume 4 Posted: 2018
Blockchain Oecd , Primer
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
861
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,421
RANK
64,451
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies