Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fictitiously Overstating Taxable Income

University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 55, No. 2, 2021

Posted: 9 Mar 2021

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

Income tax fraud is a frequent topic of law review articles. However, except for targeted looks at certain tax provisions, their focus – as well as that of the IRS, DOJ and court cases – is nearly exclusively on the more typical cases of income understatement of taxable income. This Article details and contrasts the wide range of settings in which a taxpayer is motivated to fictitiously overstate taxable income. Understanding these different settings helps answer critical questions related to the overstating, such as which taxpayer is doing the overstating? why are they doing it? for what years are they doing it? and how is it being accomplished?

This Article details different reasons taxpayers overstate income for tax saving purposes. One approach is to report income that never exists, so as to take advantage of negative marginal tax rates or to become eligible for a particular tax standing that does not apply at a lower income level. The second approach is used with income that at some point (or for some taxpayer) will exist; it is just that the taxpayer overstates it in the wrong year (or for the wrong taxpayer). A reason to do so is to shift income to a lower marginal tax rate.

However, this Article also details how taxpayer engage in overstating taxable income not to save taxes; indeed, it often raises tax costs. This is when taxable income is overstated as a conforming side-effect of activity not related to taxes, such as overstating income on loan applications or other financial statements.

The purpose of this Article is not merely to catalog interesting cases of how the complicated Internal Revenue Code leads to perverse results such that overstating taxable income can actually reduce taxes or to shine a light on scams in non-tax settings that use fictitious tax returns as a tool. Instead, the detailed examples are offered as a roadmap to government, counsel and others tasked with analyzing such settings.

This Article ends by detailing considerations in applying the Code’s tax crime provisions to the various types of fictitious overstatement settings. The wrongdoers’ goals and methods of overstating can be subtly different and are relevant to government investigations, as well as to which Code crime provision(s) apply and government’s ability to prove the requisite state of mind in tax prosecutions (and even in non-tax prosecutions where tax filings are relevant).

https://cpb-us-w2.wpmucdn.com/usfblogs.usfca.edu/dist/7/272/files/2021/03/san_55-2-Veliotis.pdf

Keywords: tax crime, tax fraud, negative marginal tax rate

JEL Classification: K34, K14, K42

Suggested Citation:

Veliotis, Stanley, Fictitiously Overstating Taxable Income (August 1, 2020). University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 55, No. 2, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799976
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies