Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Early career perceptions of the review process: Survey evidence and directions for future research

Posted: 15 Mar 2021 Last revised: 9 Jun 2024

Mary E Marshall

Portland State University

Donna Bobek

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Date Written: April 3, 2024

Abstract

Our descriptive study highlights important issues in the early career experience from the “bottom up” perspective of 133 early career tax professionals working in public accounting firms. In addition to providing insights about their responsibilities as preparers and reviewers on engagements, respondents share perceptions of the workload and responsibilities of reviewers, insights about learning and professional development opportunities within the firm, observations of common stressors in the tax practice environment, and experiences and plans for working remotely. Respondents report a significantly increased and potentially overwhelming workload for new reviewers, a preference for more coaching and mentoring from reviewers, and concerns about high workloads and low retention within their firms. Results highlight these and several other areas where future research can examine how elements of the early career experience influence professional development and staff retention, both of which are issues of high importance to the accounting profession, regulatory bodies, and academics.

Keywords: tax practice, early career professionals, review process, roles

Suggested Citation:

Marshall, Mary and Bobek, Donna, Early career perceptions of the review process: Survey evidence and directions for future research (April 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3802534
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
352
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies