Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Book-Tax Differences, Earnings Persistence, and Investment Expenditures

43 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2021

Mark C. Anderson

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Sina Rahiminejad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: December 30, 2020

Abstract

We re-examine the question why large positive and large negative book-tax differences (LPBTDs and LNBTDs) are associated with lower earnings persistence (Hanlon, 2005). Specifically, we investigate whether lower earnings persistence of LPBTD firms and LNBTD firms, relative to firms in the middle BTD quintiles, is due to earnings management or is a consequence of high levels of investment expenditures. First, we show that high CAPX (HiCAPX) firms and high R&D (HiR&D) firms are disproportionately represented in the LPBTD and LNBTD quintiles respectively, whereas high discretionary accrual (HiDA) firms are uniformly distributed across the LPBTD, LNBTD and middle BTD quintiles. Next, we find that HiDA firms are associated with lower earnings persistence in all BTD quintiles, but HiCAPX and HiR&D firms are only associated with lower earnings persistence in the LPBTD and LNBTD quintiles respectively. Extending the Hanlon (2005) model, we demonstrate that the differential earnings persistence associated with LPBTDs and LNBTDs comes from the intersection of HiCAPX and LPBTD firms and the intersection of HiR&D and LNBTD firms respectively. These intersections reflect growth through investment in physical capital and innovation through investment in R&D respectively.

Keywords: large book-tax differences; earnings persistence; earnings management; discretionary accruals; capital expenditure; research and development

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Mark C. and Banker, Rajiv D. and Rahiminejad, Sina and Warsame, Hussein A., Large Book-Tax Differences, Earnings Persistence, and Investment Expenditures (December 30, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3805356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3805356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Eli Amir , Yanling Guan , Gilad Livne
The association of R&D and capital expenditures with subsequent earnings variability
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 1-2 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Bradley Blaylock , Terry Shevlin , Ryan J Wilson
Tax avoidance, large positive temporary book-tax differences, and earnings persistence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 120 Posted: 2012
Crossref
David Burgstahler , Ilia Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Louis Kc Chan , Josef Lakonishok , Theodore Sougiannis
The stock market valuation of research and development expenditures
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 2431 - 2456 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
948
RANK
361,062
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies