Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation of Normal and Excess Returns to Risky Assets

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2021-025/VI

50 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Robin Boadway

Queen's University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Centre Interuniversitaire sur le Risque, les Politiques Economiques et l'Emploi (CIRPEE)

Kevin Spiritus

KU Leuven; Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 15, 2021

Abstract

We study the optimal taxation of risk-free and excess capital income with heterogeneous rates of return, alongside an optimal nonlinear earnings tax. Households can hold three assets: one risk-free, one risky but diversifiable, and one a private investment with idiosyncratic risk whose expected return differs among households. Contrary to expectations, the optimal tax on excess returns to risky assets is ineffective for redistribution, because its effects are annulled by a Domar-Musgrave effect. It assumes only an insurance role, and is positive. The optimal tax on risk-free returns does fulfill a redistributive role, insofar the risk-free returns reveal information about the investors' types beyond what is revealed by the earnings tax base. The optimal nonlinear earnings tax takes the standard Mirrleesian form amended to take account of the stochasticity of capital income tax revenue.


Keywords: optimal capital taxation, Rate-of-Return Allowance, risk, excess returns

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H24

Suggested Citation:

Boadway, Robin and Spiritus, Kevin and Spiritus, Kevin, Optimal Taxation of Normal and Excess Returns to Risky Assets (March 15, 2021). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2021-025/VI, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,287
RANK
143,068
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies