Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Burden on Subsequent Tax Evasion

Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Amy M. Hageman

Kansas State University

Ethan LaMothe

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Mary E Marshall

Portland State University

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Taxpayers who are audited can incur both monetary and nonmonetary costs unrelated to their chosen level of compliance. We refer to these costs of being audited as “audit burden” and examine the effect of audit burden on subsequent compliance decisions. Importantly, audit burden does not include the costs related to any evasion discovered by an audit (e.g., penalties, unpaid taxes, or interest), but are the monetary and nonmonetary costs borne by compliers and evaders alike who are audited. Motivated by theory on cost-loss framing, we predict individuals who were initially noncompliant (compliant) on an audited return will subsequently increase (decrease) compliance. We test our hypotheses experimentally using real US taxpayers recruited from the Amazon Mechanical Turk (mTurk) platform. Consistent with our hypotheses, results from our primary experiment suggest burdensome audits are beneficial in reducing noncompliance but also result in greater noncompliance from individuals who were initially compliant. Follow-up experiments rule out alternative explanations and find: (1) our results are robust to alternative specifications of audit burden, (2) apologies may mitigate the unintentional negative effect of audit burden on compliers, and (3) monetary rewards demonstrate no mitigating effect. These results extend the literature on cost-loss framing, which previously focused on voluntary expenditures, by identifying the influence of framing compulsory expenditures. Practical implications to the IRS and other tax enforcement agencies are also discussed.

Keywords: audit burden, tax compliance, tax audit

Suggested Citation:

Hageman, Amy M. and LaMothe, Ethan and Marshall, Mary, The Effect of Audit Burden on Subsequent Tax Evasion (March 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3808269
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies