Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Real Property Taxation Regulation in the Slovak Republic – the Fairness of the Current System

In: Analyses and Studies CASP=Analizy i Studia CASP. ISSN 2451-0475. vol. 8, no. 2 (2019), pp. 33-43. DOI 10.33119/ASCASP.2019.2.3

11 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2021

Anna Vartašova

University of Pavol Jozef Šafárik in Kosice

Karolína Červená

Pavol Jozef Šafárik University in Košice; Technical University in Košice (TUKE)

Date Written: November 2019

Abstract

This article provides for the analysis of the real property taxation legal regulation from the viewpoint of the quality assessment with special attention paid to the tax fairness principle. The authors concluded that: A) the current system is quite simple and favourable for the municipalities, but they also found the problem with: B) non-considering the real value of the taxed properties and applicability of only a limited number of corrective factors to adjust the area-based tax system (while, actually, the ability to apply at least these factors is a positive feature of the Slovak real property tax system); C) disparities in the tax burden division and errors in the practical application of competences (in some cases even bordering on abusive practices) accruing from the competence of municipalities to adjust the statutory regulation by their by-laws (which itself is a positive feature of the system as it allows them to adjust the regulation according to their needs); and D) the low affinity to reform or improve the negatives of the current regulation. The research question of whether the current regulation of real property taxation is qualitatively adequate in terms of tax fairness herein examined was answered negatively with respect to the above-mentioned negatives.

Keywords: local tax, real property tax, municipality, local self-government, Slovak Republic, tax fairness

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Vartašova, Anna and Červená, Karolína, The Quality of Real Property Taxation Regulation in the Slovak Republic – the Fairness of the Current System (November 2019). In: Analyses and Studies CASP=Analizy i Studia CASP. ISSN 2451-0475. vol. 8, no. 2 (2019), pp. 33-43. DOI 10.33119/ASCASP.2019.2.3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3812320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
V Babčák
Slovenské daňové právo Posted: 2012
J Brzeski , A Románová , R Franzsen
The evolution of property taxes in postSocialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe, ATI Working papers WP/19/01, African Tax Institute Posted: 2019
M Bujňáková
Dane a ich právna úprava v Slovenskej republike v kontexte daňovej politiky Posted: 2015
M Bujňáková , A Románová , Právo , Iv , : P J Košice
Zamyslenie sa nad ideou zavedenia zdaňovania nehnuteľností na princípe trhovej hodnoty , p. 61 - 75 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
460
RANK
812,770
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies