Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Tax-Related Uncertainty and Market Liquidity

50 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2021 Last revised: 14 Nov 2024

R. Christopher Small

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Jane Z. Song

University of Missouri - Trulaske College of Business

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

We examine how the disclosure of unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) under FIN 48 affects market liquidity through its impact on investor uncertainty and processing costs. We find that current UTB additions are associated with reduced trading around the release of the 10-K, wider bid-ask spreads following the 10-K release, and a lengthier post-disclosure drift. Our results suggest that UTB additions increase investor uncertainty and processing costs, and that investors impound the information contained in UTBs into prices with a delay. Moreover, our results are concentrated in firms that engage in greater tax avoidance and in firms with poorer financial reporting quality. We also find the association between UTB additions and information asymmetry is concentrated among firms with low institutional ownership. Our results suggest that UTB disclosures reduce market liquidity and impede price discovery, which undermines the FASB’s goal of increasing the relevance and transparency of accounting for uncertain tax positions.

Keywords: Unrecognized tax benefits, liquidity, investor uncertainty, information asymmetry, trading volume, bid-ask spreads, FIN 48, processing costs

JEL Classification: M41, G10, H20

Suggested Citation:

Small, R. Christopher and Song, Jane (Zhiyan), Disclosure of Tax-Related Uncertainty and Market Liquidity (November 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
W H Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of accounting research , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
310,241
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies