Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Equality and Taxation - International Perspectives

32 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2021

Asa Gunnarsson

Umeå University

Date Written: April 3, 2021

Abstract

The National tax laws and international tax policies have, despite impressive growth performances in many economies, worked against economic gender equality. The broad concept of tax fairness has become equivalent to what is good for economic growth and detached from social justice, leading to increasing income gaps and poverty. As a result, many aspects of taxation have indirectly had a substantial effect on gender-related socio-economic inequalities even though most domestic tax laws being gender neutral. The ignorance to consider gender inequalities, when designing tax laws, is obviously in conflict with several legal obligations and policies, on national, regional and international levels.

In this paper, novel insights concerning the relationship between gender equality and taxation are presented. These insights have been pushed forward by both the societal challenges of financial crisis and now the pandemic crisis. Based on legal and economic perspectives, the anlysis in the text provides an overview of gender aspects within taxation when related to current tax policy trends.

Keywords: Tax policy, gender equality, tax principles, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Gunnarsson, Asa, Gender Equality and Taxation - International Perspectives (April 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3818771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3818771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Lena Andersson-Skog
In the shadow of the Swedish welfare state: women and the service sector
Business history review , volume 81 , p. 451 - 470 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Gry Alsos , Hytti , Ulla Agnete , Elisabet Ljunggren
Gender and innovation -an introduction Research Handbook on Gender and Innovation , p. 3 - 16 Posted: 2016
Anette Alstadsaeter , Jacob Martin
Income Shifting in Sweden: An empirical evaluation of the 3:12 rules
Ministry of Finance , volume 2012 Posted: 2012
Patricia Apps
Gender equity in the tax-transfer system for fiscal sustainability
Tax Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
RANK
161,215
3 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies