Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign tax holiday participation and U.S. job and investment loss

51 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021 Last revised: 27 Aug 2025

Zackery D. Fox

Brigham Young University

Linda K. Krull

University of Oregon

Scott G. Rane

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: August 27, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether foreign tax holiday participation among U.S. multinational companies is associated with offshoring U.S. jobs and other domestic investment activities. We find that foreign tax holiday participation is associated with (1) an increase in offshoring U.S. jobs and (2) a decrease in domestic investment, as proxied by changes in the number of employees, capital expenditures, and R&D activity. Furthermore, we find evidence suggesting that the association between targeted, temporary tax incentives provided by foreign tax holidays and firms’ domestic activities is stronger among firms with a smaller foreign presence and is distinct from the impact of foreign statutory tax rate changes. Overall, the results of this study increase our understanding of firm-level consequences of foreign tax holiday participation, the influence of various tax incentive structures on the allocation of firm resources, and the potential consequences of international tax competition. 

Keywords: tax holidays, offshoring, foreign investment, employment

JEL Classification: F23, G31, H25, J21, J22, M16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Zackery D. and Krull, Linda K. and Rane, Scott G., Foreign tax holiday participation and U.S. job and investment loss (August 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3820017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J F Albertus
The real effects of u.s. tax arbitrage by foreign multinational firms Posted: 2018
P C Austin , E A Stuart
Moving towards best practice when using inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) using the propensity score to estimate causal treatment effects in observational studies
Statistics in medicine , volume 34 , issue 28 , p. 3661 - 3679 Posted: 2015
H Barkema , J Bell , J Pennings
Foreign entry, cultural barriers, and learning
Strategic Management Journal , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 1996
D A Bens , P G Berger , S J Monahan
Discretionary Disclosure in Financial Reporting: An Examination Comparing Internal Firm Data to Externally Reported Segment Data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
RANK
280,691
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies