Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Taxation and Heterogeneity

133 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

John Sturm

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Department of Economics

Andre Sztutman

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Date Written: April 6, 2021

Abstract

How should income taxes account for differences in households’ tax responses? We address this question with a new efficiency test for non-linear income tax schedules in environments with arbitrary heterogeneity in the elasticity of taxable income (ETI). Importantly, the test fails when these differences in ETI are wide enough among households with the same income. In such cases, the planner can reform taxes to (a) sort households into different parts of the income distribution based on their elasticities and—at the same time—(b) adapt to this separation using higher marginal taxes on the less elastic. Moving to the data, we evaluate our test using novel estimates of the variance of ETI by income bracket. In the NBER sample of tax returns from 1979 to 1990, our preliminary estimates indicate that the test fails every year. This implies that a “free lunch” is available through tax reform.

Keywords: optimal taxation, Pareto efficiency, multidimensional heterogeneity

JEL Classification: H21

Suggested Citation:

Sturm, John and Sztutman, Andre, Income Taxation and Heterogeneity (April 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3820880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
C Aliprantis , Border
Infinite Dimensional Analysis: A Hitchhiker's Guide Posted: 2006
Susan Athey , Julie Tibshirani , Stefan Wager
Generalized random forests
The Annals of Statistics , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 1148 - 1178 Posted: 2019
Olivier Bargain , Mathias Dolls , Dirk Neumann , Andreas Peichl , Sebastian Siegloch
Tax-benefit revealed social preferences in europe and the us
Annals of Economics and Statistics/Annales d'Économie et de Statistique , issue 113/114 , p. 257 - 289 Posted: 2014
Felix Bierbrauer , Pierre Boyer , Emanuel Hansen
Pareto-improving tax reforms and the earned income tax credit Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,390
RANK
229,292
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies