Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Upstream Tax Planning: A Case Study of Why Congress Should Institute a General Anti-Abuse Rule?

99 North Carolina Law Review 643 (2021)

42 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2021

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Date Written: March 6, 2021

Abstract

Tax abuse—a process by which taxpayers secure tax outcomes that directly or indirectly contravene congressional intent—is a commonplace phenomenon that has plagued the nation’s economic fabric since Congress instituted the income tax. A typical pattern associated with tax abuse is as follows: one or more taxpayers devise a methodology to mitigate their tax burdens in a way that skirts their civic obligations, the practice becomes widespread, and Congress responds by instituting reform measures. Often, however, the legislative process takes years or, in some cases, decades to unfold; in the meantime, billions of dollars of tax revenue are lost.

Consider the case of upstream tax planning. This is a process by which younger-generation taxpayers gift appreciated assets to older loved ones with the expectation of receiving such assets back in the form of outright bequests or in trust for their benefit. After the application of the Internal Revenue Code’s “basis equal to fair market value” rule, the transferred assets are cleansed of their former gains, making upstream tax planning very financially enticing.

Using upstream tax planning as a case study, this analysis advocates that Congress enact a general anti-abuse rule that vests the Treasury Department with broad administrative authority to promulgate anti-abuse regulations whenever the agency perceives a tax-compliance problem. The grant of such administrative authority combined with its utilization would yield a vast improvement over the status quo: it would safeguard the nation’s coffers in a faster and more timely manner; enhance and invigorate taxpayer compliance; and, where necessary, strongly hue the Code to being more standard-based rather than rule-based in nature.


Keywords: Tax Abuse

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay, Upstream Tax Planning: A Case Study of Why Congress Should Institute a General Anti-Abuse Rule? (March 6, 2021). 99 North Carolina Law Review 643 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3820900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
508,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies