Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gaming the IRS’ Third-Party Reporting System: Evidence from Pari-Mutuel Wagering

Journal of Accounting Research

53 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2021 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Duke Ferguson

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 29, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether taxpayers intentionally avoid IRS third-party reports. In 2017 an IRS amendment created a quasi-exogenous shock that reduced third-party tax reporting of pari-mutuel gambling winnings from certain types of wagers. I consider the effect that this rule change had on taxpayer behavior. Using a difference-in-differences research design comparing thoroughbred racing in the U.S. to Canada, I find a 27 percent increase in gambler’s investment into wager-types that became less likely to trigger third-party reports. Further, I provide evidence that this effect was due to third-party reporting, not withholding, and was stronger in more informed gambling populations. These findings suggest that taxpayers knowingly avoid third-party reports, enabling underreporting of income to the IRS. This has important policy implications because underreported individual income is the largest driver of the $496 billion annual gap between legal tax liability and actual tax collections in the U.S. (Internal Revenue Service [2022]).

Keywords: Third-Party Reporting, Income Underreporting, U.S. Tax Gap, IRS

JEL Classification: H24, H26, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Duke, Gaming the IRS’ Third-Party Reporting System: Evidence from Pari-Mutuel Wagering (March 29, 2023). Journal of Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3821188 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3821188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Auter References , Z
About Half of Americans Play State Lotteries Posted: 2016-07-22
P Beck , W Jung
Taxpayers' Reporting Decisions and Auditing Under Information Asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , p. 468 - 487 Posted: 1989
A Beyer , Beyer On , Speed
Tax Reporting, Withholding Changes Impact Breeders' Cup
New Strategies for Racetrack Betting Posted: 1995-11-06
Staff Bloodhorse
Regulations on Pari-Mutuel Withholding Adopted by IRS
BloodHorse.com. BloodHorse Posted: 2017-09-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
RANK
337,844
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Planning eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies