Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Choice of Presentation Format: The Case of ETR Reconciliations

The Accounting Review; https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0333 Forthcoming

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3823264

Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Roman Chychyla

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Diana Falsetta

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Sundaresh Ramnath

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 9, 2021

Abstract

To minimize costs related to unfavorable perceptions of their tax-related activities, firms with low effective tax rates (ETR) could avoid, where possible, explicit mentions of their effective tax rates. Using this reputational cost perspective we study an item of required disclosure in the income tax footnote of the 10-K, the ETR reconciliation table, where firms can choose a presentation format that reveals the tax rate (the percentage format) or one that avoids explicit mention of the effective tax rate (the dollar format). We find that firms with low ETRs are 24 percent more likely to use the dollar format, and are also less likely to mention their tax rates elsewhere in their disclosures, consistent with the choice of dollar format reflecting a firm's overall tax disclosure strategy. Analysts' tax expense forecasts are less accurate for dollar format firms, suggesting higher processing costs associated with tax-related disclosures for these firms.

Keywords: ETR, Disclosure Presentation, Reputational Cost, Analyst Forecast

JEL Classification: H20, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chychyla, Roman and Falsetta, Diana and Ramnath, Sundaresh, Strategic Choice of Presentation Format: The Case of ETR Reconciliations (April 9, 2021). The Accounting Review; https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0333 Forthcoming, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 3823264, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823446
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies