Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trying to Make a Good First Impression: A Natural Field Experiment to Engage New Entrants to the Tax System

IZA Discussion Paper No. 14253

32 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Sarah Xue Dong

Australian National University (ANU)

Mathias Sinning

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Very little is known about the compliance behavior of first-time taxpayers although their tax paying habits may affect the long-run functioning of a tax system. This paper studies the compliance behavior of new entrants to the tax system using data from a large-scale natural field experiment that was implemented in collaboration with the Australian Taxation Office (ATO). We examine the effectiveness of a welcome letter from the tax authority that aims to nudge first-time taxpayers to lodge their first income tax return. We compare this letter to a standard letter that emphasizes the possibility of penalties and interest charges. We find that both letters have surprisingly similar effects on tax compliance, suggesting that the main channel through which the letters affect individual behavior is by providing information. By contrast, the type of messaging and the way in which information is presented to first-time taxpayers appear to be relatively unimportant. Our analysis of heterogeneous treatment effects indicates that both letters are most effective for young entrants to the tax system and, within this group, more effective for Australian citizens than for visa holders.

Keywords: natural field experiment, behavioral insights, tax compliance

JEL Classification: C93, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Sarah Xue and Sinning, Mathias, Trying to Make a Good First Impression: A Natural Field Experiment to Engage New Entrants to the Tax System. IZA Discussion Paper No. 14253, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3823620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
A Antinyan , Z Asatryan
Nudging for Tax Compliance: A Meta-Analysis
CESifo Working Paper No , volume 8500 Posted: 2020
Barak Ariel
Deterrence and Moral Persuasion Effects on Corporate Tax Compliance: Findings from a Randomized Controlled Trial
Criminology , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 69 Posted: 2012
Spencer Bastani , Thomas Giebe , Chizheng Miao
Ethnicity and Tax Filing Behavior
Journal of Urban Economics Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Agung Satyadini , Arifin Rosid
Does Tax Simplification Motivate Small Businesses to Be More Compliant? Evidence from a Regression Discontinuity in Indonesia
Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies , p. 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
604
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies