Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Returns, Tax Deductibility of Costs of Studying and the Importance of Comprehensible Information – An Empirical Analysis

Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Andreas Oehler

Bamberg University

Thomas Egner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stefan Wendt

School of Business, Reykjavik University

Date Written: March 12, 2021

Abstract

The German tax system allows tax deductibility of costs of studying either as special expenses or as work-related tax deductions. However, filing tax returns and utilizing tax deductibility of costs of studying are hampered if benefits are not obvious, if costs are not automatically accounted for and if changes in regulation increase uncertainty. Purpose of the study is to determine if students file tax returns and if they include costs of studying. We employ a questionnaire-based survey design. We also test if students assess straightforward and short self-developed explanations as more suitable than explanations from tax return forms when it comes to explaining tax deductibility of costs of studying. We find that 63% of the respondents did not submit any tax return, 72% did not utilize tax deductibility of costs of studying and 54% state to be hardly informed. The self-developed text is assessed as being more suitable. An immediate implication of these findings is the need to simplify information on taxation, in particular regarding the income tax return, and tax deductibility, and to make such information more understandable. They also encourage evidence-based development of target group specific explanatory texts on tax issues, such as explanations for students, people in vocational training or those in further education. Achieving more widespread utilization of tax deductibility of costs of studying would result in financial benefits for students in the form of a reduced tax burden either already during the studies or in subsequent years.

Keywords: Tax Literacy, Costs of Studying, Work Related Tax Deductions, Special Expenses, Behavioral Economics

JEL Classification: A22, D04, D12, D14, D83, H24

Suggested Citation:

Oehler, Andreas and Egner, Thomas and Wendt, Stefan, Tax Returns, Tax Deductibility of Costs of Studying and the Importance of Comprehensible Information – An Empirical Analysis (March 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824959
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
485
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies