Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More Generous than Accurate: The GILTI Foreign Tax Credit and Coordination of the Foreign Tax Credit Rules with the New International Tax Provisions of the TCJA

Albany Law Review, Vol. 83, 2020

101 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2021

Rebecca Rosenberg

Ohio Northern University, Pettit College of Law

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

The recent Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) enacted massive changes to the U.S. tax system’s international tax rules, including changes to the U.S. foreign tax credit. (Foreign tax credits reduce U.S. tax by the amount of the U.S. taxpayer’s foreign taxes, subject to many requirements.) Among other changes, the TCJA added a new type of foreign tax credit for U.S. shareholders who suffer GILTI (global intangible low-taxed income) inclusions. In addition, the TCJA reduced the foreign tax credits available in some circumstances, to coordinate with new international tax provisions. Such new provisions include a one-time deemed repatriation of certain foreign subsidiaries’ earnings, a 100 percent deduction for dividends received from certain foreign subsidiaries, and the BEAT (base erosion and anti-abuse tax).

This Article discusses the impact of the GILTI-related foreign tax credit rules and the coordination of other new international provisions with the existing foreign tax credit system. The Article argues that the GILTI-related foreign tax credit is more generous than accuracy (exact reduction of double taxation) would demand. The TCJA’s coordination of other new rules with the foreign tax credit system also tends to be more taxpayer favorable than mere fairness would require, with some notable exceptions. The interaction of the foreign tax credit with the new international tax provisions also creates some surprising effects and incentives.

Keywords: GILTI, foreign tax credit, TCJA, 960

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Rosenberg, Rebecca, More Generous than Accurate: The GILTI Foreign Tax Credit and Coordination of the Foreign Tax Credit Rules with the New International Tax Provisions of the TCJA (June 11, 2020). Albany Law Review, Vol. 83, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
I R C See
The Code language leaves open the possibility that the inclusion percentage could apply separately to each section 904(d) "basket," i.e. separately to the GILTI basket, as compared to GILTI in the passive basket or a treaty resourced basket. See I.R.C. § 904(d) (requiring separate application of section 960 to each basket) , volume 960
I R C See
960(d) (using the term "properly attributable" without defining it); see also Rosenberg, Partial Repeal, supra note 10, at 129-36. 108 Tested income is a defined term in section 951A (and is cross-referenced in the deemed paid formula of section , volume 960
I R C See , 951a
)(A) (Supp Posted: 2018
I R C
, volume 960
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
625
RANK
459,276
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies