Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Postmaterialism and Corporate Tax Avoidance

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-138

51 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2021

Yujia Cui

Beijing Institute of Technology - School of Management & Economics

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kangtao Ye

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: March 15, 2021

Abstract

This paper explores how postmaterialism culture influences corporate tax avoidance behavior. Using a proprietary dataset of China tax audits, we find that firms owned by investors from countries with higher postmaterialism values are less likely to engage in tax avoidance behavior in China. In addition, we find some evidence that the negative association between postmaterialism and tax avoidance is more pronounced when tax enforcement is stronger, indicating that national culture and formal institutions act as complements. To check the external validity of our main results, we further use a cross-country sample from 21 countries over 22 years. The evidence from the cross-country sample is consistent with the findings obtained from the China tax audits setting.

Keywords: Postmaterialism; Culture; Tax Avoidance; Tax Enforcement; China; Cross-country

JEL Classification: H26; M14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Yujia and Wang, Jiwei and Ye, Kangtao, Postmaterialism and Corporate Tax Avoidance (March 15, 2021). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2021-138, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3825279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Economics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 417 - 480
Crossref
S Han , T Kang , S Salter , Y K Yoo
A cross-country study on the effects of national culture on earnings management
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 141 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Hanlon , S Heitzman
A review of tax research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 127 - 178 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Hasan , C K Hoi , Q Wu , H Zhang
Does social capital matter in corporate decisions? Evidence from corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 629 - 668 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,020
RANK
388,855
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies