Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Tax Audit Effectiveness in East Gojjam Zone Revenue Office in Ethiopia

THINK INDIA JOURNAL, Vol-22- Issue-14-December-2019

21 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2021

Workneh Mengist

Debre Tabor University

Dr. Bhupendra Kumar

Debre Tabor University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to determine factors affecting tax audit effectiveness using statistical analysis; both qualitative and quantitative approach (use mixed method). The population of the study includes the entire set of all tax auditors and process owners operated in the East Gojjam Zone Revenue Office. Accordingly, the target population for the study would be 14 tax auditors and 20 process owners of revenue office. The researcher use census method to select respondents form revenue office. A total of 34 copies of questionnaire were distributed to tax auditors and process owners of revenue office and in-depth interviews with tax official were conducted. In addition, secondary data was used and investigated, mainly to show the trend of the last five years from 2002/03 up to2006/07(Ethiopian Calendar). The data was analyzed on qualitative research approach to explore attitudes, behaviors and experiences through methods such as in-depth interview and quantitative basis using Pearson’s correlation, linear regression analysis and descriptive statistics. And the finding of this study show the effects of Audi tee Attribute, Organizational Setting, Top management support, Organizational independence, and Audit Quality with tax audit effectiveness on the revenue office. According to the regression output from the total five independent variables, all independent variables except organizational setting are positively correlated and positive contribution with tax audit effectiveness in the revenue office. Organizational setting has a negative influence on tax audit effectiveness. All of these five independent variables are making 81% of the contributions for tax audit effectiveness in the revenue offices.

Keywords: Tax Audit; Revenue Office; Tax Audit Effectiveness; Factors Affecting Tax Audit Effectiveness

Suggested Citation:

Mengist, Workneh and Kumar, Bhupendra, Factors Affecting Tax Audit Effectiveness in East Gojjam Zone Revenue Office in Ethiopia (2019). THINK INDIA JOURNAL, Vol-22- Issue-14-December-2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3826772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
the Effectiveness of Internal Auditing: An Empirical Examination of its Determinants in Israeli Organizations , p. 971 - 1260 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Strengthening Tax Audit Capabilities Posted: 2013-10
M B Adams
Agency theory and the internal audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Jenkins Berhan
The high costs of controlling GST and VAT evasion , volume 53 Posted: 2005-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
186,369
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies