Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Punish or Not to Punish? The Impact of Tax Fraud Punishment on Observers’ Tax Compliance (Forthcoming in Journal of Business Ethics https://rdcu.be/cHfDk)

53 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 22 Feb 2022

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Jonathan Farrar

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Date Written: April 14, 2021

Abstract

We synthesize insights from deterrence theory and social psychology literature on retributive justice to develop and test a theoretical model which predicts how and why observers’ tax compliance intentions are influenced by knowledge of others’ punitive outcomes resulting from tax fraud. We test our model experimentally on a sample of Canadian taxpayers and manipulate perceived responsibility for a fraud and whether a fraud perpetrator is punished. We show that observers’ tax compliance increases when a fraud perpetrator is punished only when the fraud perpetrator is perceived as blameworthy. Furthermore, the psychological process through which this positive influence operates is relatively complex as it includes perceptions of punishment deservingness and affect. We also find that tax compliance decreases when a tax fraud perpetrator is unpunished, regardless of blameworthiness. Our results are robust when we control for economic determinants known to influence fraud. Implications for fraud research and policy are discussed.

Keywords: fraud; retributive justice; punishment reactions; punishment deservingness; responsibility; affective reactions; tax compliance

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

King, Tisha and Farrar, Jonathan, To Punish or Not to Punish? The Impact of Tax Fraud Punishment on Observers’ Tax Compliance (Forthcoming in Journal of Business Ethics https://rdcu.be/cHfDk) (April 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3826736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3826736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
M Ainley
Connecting with learning: Motivation, affect and cognition in interest processes
Educational Psychology Review , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 405 Posted: 2006
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
Measuring, explaining and controlling tax evasion: Lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
J Alm , E Kirchler , S Muelbacher
Combining psychology and economics in the analysis of compliance: from enforcement to cooperation
Economic Analysis and Policy , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 133 - 151 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Wenhui Yang , Jing Zhao
Information Nudges and Tax Compliance: Evidence from a Field Experiment in China
JEBO-D-23-01763 · 53 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,215
RANK
173,555
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies