Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Homeownership and Taxes: How the TCJA Altered the Tax Code’s Treatment of Housing

42 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 22 Oct 2021

Brent W. Ambrose

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Insurance & Real Estate

Patric Hendershott

affiliation not provided to SSRN

David C. Ling

University of Florida - Hough Graduate School of Business Administration

Gary A. McGill

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: April 12, 2021

Abstract

The federal government has long promoted homeownership through various provisions in the U.S. income tax code. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) renewed interest and debate about the treatment of housing via the tax code, particularly with respect to the mortgage interest deduction and the limitation on deductions for state and local taxes. We document the extent that the TCJA magnifies the long-standing anti-mortgage debt bias in the tax code. Our analysis reveals that ongoing discussions about the effects of eliminating the mortgage interest deduction are largely irrelevant because most households no longer benefit from this deduction. We also demonstrate how the limitations on the deduction of state and local taxes alters the costs associated with homeownership across geographic areas, and we provide detailed calculations of the average and marginal tax rates at which housing related expenses are deducted. Finally, we calculate how the major tax benefit of owner-occupied housing — the nontaxation of net implicit rental income varies across income groups and locations.

Keywords: tax policy; homeownership; mortgage interest deduction; net implicit rental income

JEL Classification: G51, H24

Suggested Citation:

Ambrose, Brent W. and Hendershott, Patric and Ling, David C. and McGill, Gary A., Homeownership and Taxes: How the TCJA Altered the Tax Code’s Treatment of Housing (April 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Henry Aaron
Income Taxes and Housing
American Economic Review , volume 60 , issue 5 , p. 789 - 806 Posted: 1970
Paige D Bressler , Michael Killey
Winners and Losers Under TCJA
Tax Notes Posted: 2020-10-26
Capozza , Richard K Dennis , Patric Green , Hendershott , Henry A Aaron , William G Gale
Taxes, Mortgage Borrowing, and Residential Land Prices
Economic Effects of Fundamental Tax Reform , p. 171 - 198 Posted: 1996
Dennis Capozza , Richard Green , Patric Hendershott
Housing Market Responses to the Mortgage Interest Deduction Posted: 1998-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,333
RANK
499,164
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies