Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Shareholder Valuation of Indirect Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

Posted: 20 Apr 2021

Shail Pandit

University of Illinois at Chicago; University of Illinois at Chicago

Mehul Ashok Raithatha

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore

Stephanie Sikes

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Date Written: April 16, 2021

Abstract

We take advantage of recent indirect tax reforms in India to study the incentives to engage in indirect tax avoidance and shareholder valuation of such avoidance. Our results suggest that size of the product portfolio, geographical proximity of manufacturing facilities to headquarters, ownership concentration and membership in business groups are positively associated with the propensity to avoid indirect taxes and that the extent of international operations and a company’s financial health are negatively associated with the propensity. We also find evidence of a positive relation between direct tax avoidance and indirect tax avoidance. Firms that avoid indirect taxes suffer shareholder value loss when their privileged position comes under risk due to tax reforms, as suggested by the stock price reaction surrounding the tax legislation. However, greater product market power mitigates the negative reaction.

Keywords: Indirect taxes; ad valorem taxes; sales tax; goods and services tax; tax reform; tax avoidance; capital market effects.

JEL Classification: H25, H26, G14, K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pandit, Shailendra and Pandit, Shailendra and Raithatha, Mehul Ashok and Sikes, Stephanie, Determinants and Shareholder Valuation of Indirect Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (April 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828321
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies