Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of China Tax Research

Forthcoming, China Accounting and Finance Review

50 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Xiaoli Feng

Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Kai Zhu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 13, 2021

Abstract

We conduct a comprehensive review of China tax research published in both the English and Chinese journals since 1990. To provide an appropriate context for our review, we summarize the key institutional features of China’s tax system. We find that China offers many interesting institutional features that have not been fully exploited in past tax research. Our review suggests that China tax research is still a relatively neglected field, though the field is growing in the past few years. We identify several promising new directions for future China tax research.

Keywords: taxation; China

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Xiaoli and Ke, Bin and Zhu, Kai, A Review of China Tax Research (April 13, 2021). Forthcoming, China Accounting and Finance Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
318 References
Z An
Taxation and capital structure: empirical evidence from a quasi-experiment in China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 683 - 689 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A M Bauer , J Fang , J Pittman , Y Zhang , Y Zhao
How Aggressive Tax Planning Facilitates the Diversion of Corporate Resources: Evidence from Path Analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2019
Crossref
D Berkowitz , W Li
Tax rights in transition economies: a tragedy of the commons?
Journal of Public Economics , volume 76 , issue 3 , p. 369 - 397 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bradshaw , G Liao , M S Ma
Agency costs and tax planning when the government is a major shareholder
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 277 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
149,472
318 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies