Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Incentives for Charitable Giving as a Policy Instrument: Theoretical Discussion and Latest Economic Research

World Tax Journal, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 631-662, 2020

Posted: 22 Apr 2021

Giedre Lideikyte Huber

University of Geneva, Faculty of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 4, 2020

Abstract

This article explores a long-standing research and policy question on whether tax incentives for charitable giving are desirable from legal and economic perspectives. The author discusses legal and empirical aspects that are important in designing tax incentives for charitable giving. Firstly, this article introduces the general theoretical criticism related to the use of tax expenditures as policy measures. Secondly, the author reviews the most recent economic literature that studies various aspects related to the efficiency of tax incentives for charitable giving. In conclusion, both theoretical and empirical research argues that incentivizing charitable giving via tax incentives (especially tax deductions) is not the most equitable and/or the most efficient policy option, at least concerning the current forms of tax incentives. Financial incentives structured as direct expenditures, such as matching grants for charitable donations, may be a more suitable policy option. Economic literature proposes ways to make tax incentives more efficient, for instance taking into account heterogeneous taxpayers’ responses to tax incentives. Such policy options should however be carefully evaluated from a legal perspective, especially in light of the ability-to-pay principle.

Keywords: Tax policy, taxation, tax incentives, philanthropy, charitable giving, deductions, donations

JEL Classification: H2, H3, H21

Suggested Citation:

Lideikyte Huber, Giedre, Tax Incentives for Charitable Giving as a Policy Instrument: Theoretical Discussion and Latest Economic Research (August 4, 2020). World Tax Journal, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 631-662, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3831453
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
341
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies