Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Impact of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on Cement Industry in India

14 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021 Last revised: 5 May 2021

Basavanagouda Nayaka

Central University of Karnataka - Department of Commerce

Date Written: April 27, 2021

Abstract

Cement industry plays a crucial role in the development of an economy. It contributes significantly to the GDP and generates employment. Growing population, increasing scale of economic activities, and growth in the real estate sector have led to a boom in Indian cement industry. Various infrastructural development initiatives of Central and State Government also stimulated demand for cement. Indian cement industry has enormous growth potential. It is attracting FDI through mergers and acquisitions. The synergic effect has resulted in technological advancements and production efficiency in cement industry. Despite of having huge growth potential, the growth of cement industry in India is not satisfactory due to various economic and other policy implications. A high rate of GST is one of the most important factor hindering the growth of cement industry. Cement is placed in the 28% tax slab of GST in India, which is higher than the other developing and developed countries. As individuals use more than 65 percent of cement for housing constuctions, a higher tax rate on cement will adversely affect the marginal sections of the society. Non-availability of Input tax credit (ITC) in construction and real estate sector also a negative impact on the growth of and real estate and cement Industry. GST being a consumption-based tax, the entire tax burden is on end-users. Considering all the factors an attempt is made in this study to analyze the impact of GST on the Cement Industry. It is found that growth in production, consumption, sales and FDI inflows is not satisfactory in Indian cement industry after GST implementation.

Keywords: Goods and Services Tax (GST), Consumption Based Tax, Input Tax Credit (ITC), Housing and Infrastructure Development

JEL Classification: 011, 014, 018, E61, L61, H25

Suggested Citation:

Nayaka, Basavanagouda, A Study on Impact of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on Cement Industry in India (April 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3834940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
S Gupta , B N Mohapatra , M Bansal
A review on development of Portland limestone cement: A step towards low carbon economy for Indian cement industry', Current Research in Green and Sustainable Chemistry Posted: 2020
Crossref
India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF) Report on cement industry for Posted: 2020-11
K Rajamani , R S Lekshmi , Ashvini Ravi
A Study on Dealers' opinion about the effect of GST with Reference to Cement Industry
International Research Journal of Business and Management (IRJBM) , p. 60 - 65 Posted: 2018
S Morris , A Pandey , S K Agarwalla , A Agarwalla
Impact of the Proposed GST on the Consumer Price Index in India Posted: 2018
Load more
2 Citations
Anchit Sureka , Nabasmita Bordoloi
ASSESSING GST COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK: AN INVESTIGATION ON THE INFLUENCE OF ITC MISMATCH ON STAKEHOLDERS IN INDIA
Financial and credit activity problems of theory and practice , volume 1 , issue 60 , p. 235 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Busera Nadaf
An Analytical Study on Relationship Between Goods and Service Tax and Foreign Direct Investment in India
GBS Impact: Journal of Multi Disciplinary Research , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 44 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,326
RANK
23,151
2 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies