Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Partnership Revaluations: Book-Ups Are Your Friends (Usually)'—Planning with Revaluations and Their Interplay with Section 704(c)

74 Tax Lawyer (Forthcoming)

U of Maryland Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2021-06

67 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2021

Daniel S. Goldberg

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law

Date Written: April 27, 2021

Abstract

The procedure provided in the section 704(b) regulations known as “re-valuation and book-up” (sometimes called simply “book-up”) of a partnership’s assets and capital accounts is available and often used when a new partner enters an existing partnership and acquires a partnership interest in exchange for cash or property. The procedure is also available for use when the new partner obtains a partnership interest for services and when an existing partner’s interest is reduced by a nonproportionate distribution or increased by a nonproportionate contribution.

The revaluation and book-up process seeks to avoid the possibility and danger of a shift in the tax incidence when a partnership sells property acquired before the event giving rise to the book-up opportunity and, often more important, the inadvertent shift in economic benefits among partners when a new partner enters a partnership whose allocations are governed by the substantial economic effect safe harbor provisions that are common in modern partnership agreements. Revaluations and book-ups create a process by which allocations of “built-in” gains (or losses) (i.e., gains (or losses) that have arisen but have not yet been realized by the partnership prior to the entry of the new partner (or other transaction that gives rise to the book-up)) are allocated automatically to the existing partners when realized by the partnership in the amount of the built-in gain (or loss).

This Article deals with the book-up procedure generally, its consequences, planning involving book-ups, alternatives to book-ups, and other allocation procedures in lieu of the book-up procedure. The Article deals extensively with section 704(c) because section 704(c) provides the foundation for book-ups. It then discusses book-ups in a number of situations involving a new partner entering an existing partnership as well as book-ups in the context of a reduction of a partner’s partnership interest upon the liquidation of all or a portion of that partner’s interest in a partnership. The Article concludes with a number of policy recommendations.

Keywords: partnership revaluation, section 704(c), substantial economic effect, safe harbor, ceiling rule, tax allocation, book-up

Suggested Citation:

Goldberg, Daniel S., 'Partnership Revaluations: Book-Ups Are Your Friends (Usually)'—Planning with Revaluations and Their Interplay with Section 704(c) (April 27, 2021). 74 Tax Lawyer (Forthcoming), U of Maryland Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2021-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Prop , Reg
Although the proposed regulations are not final, they provide that partnerships would be allowed to adopt the rules for determining a partner's interest in section 751 property for distributions after
See Prop. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue b , p. 751 - 752 Posted: 2014-11-02
Mckee , Nelson &amp; Whitmire
Prop. Reg. § , volume 1 , p. 751 - 752
Mckee See , Nelson &amp; Whitmire
, volume 94
Crossref
Regulation section 1.704-1(b)(5), which suggests that this approach should be valid as having substantial economic effect, assuming that capital accounts are properly maintained)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,138
RANK
37,788
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies