Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effects of disconnecting the group and parent accounts on earnings persistence and cash flow predictability



Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-32

55 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

Fabio Moraes da Costa

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business; FUCAPE Business School

Anne Ehinger

Florida State University

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 13, 2025

Abstract

Corporations within the E.U. maintain group accounts that serve as the basis for a firm’s consolidated financial accounting and parent accounts that typically serve as the basis for taxation and other regulatory reporting. While historically, a country’s Local GAAP served as the accounting basis for both the firm’s group and parent accounts, the mandatory adoption of IFRS for group accounts in 2005 prompted E.U. countries to consider whether to retain the Local GAAP as the basis for a firm’s parent accounts. We examine this country-level strategic choice of continuing to require the use of Local GAAP for the parent accounts with the adoption of IFRS for group accounts, effectively decoupling tax reporting from financial reporting, and the effect of this choice on earnings persistence and cash flow predictability of the consolidated financial statements. Using a difference-in-difference approach and controlling for other synchronous changes surrounding the 2005 choice, we find earnings persistence and cash flow predictability increased upon adoption for firms in countries that decoupled, relative to a control sample. Our findings persist when we utilize a comparability-matched subsample as our control sample. Further, our results hold across both high and low levels of pre-adoption book-tax conformity (BTC). Finally, we perform a within-treatment subsample analysis by comparing the effects of decoupling on earnings persistence for group versus parent accounts, finding that BTC continues to be reflective of a firm’s tax strategy with respect to the parent accounts, but not in the group accounts. Overall, our results suggest that consolidated financial reporting increases in earnings persistence and cash flow predictability when decoupling relaxes the effect of tax reporting incentives on financial reporting.

Keywords: Earnings Persistence, Cash Flow Predictability, Financial Reporting Quality, Group versus Parent Accounts, Accounting Basis

JEL Classification: F23, G18, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

da Costa, Fabio Moraes and Ehinger, Anne and Schultze, Wolfgang and Tiras, Samuel L.,
The effects of disconnecting the group and parent accounts on earnings persistence and cash flow predictability


(February 13, 2025). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
P André , M Schaubschläger , W Schultze
The cash-relevance of IFRS -European legislation regarding dividends and taxation in the context of IFRS reporting. Working paper Posted: 2021
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
306,268
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies