Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggressive Tax Planning and Labor Investments

Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 4 May 2021 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Simone Traini

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine the association between aggressive tax planning and labor investment efficiency among U.S. firms. Labor is an important input to production that is material to many firms, and prior research suggests that inefficient labor investments can negatively affect future profitability and growth. We provide evidence that firms engaging in aggressive tax planning are associated with deviations from expected labor investments, which is indicative of labor investment inefficiency. We find that our results are concentrated in labor underinvestment, consistent with risks and uncertainties from aggressive tax planning making firms more cautious when investing. Our findings are strongest among firms with greater tax risk, higher labor costs, and weaker corporate governance. Our study contributes to the literature examining tax planning consequences by providing evidence that a tradeoff exists between aggressive tax planning and investments in labor. Therefore, our results suggest that managers should carefully consider the cash flow benefits of tax planning in conjunction with the potential effects of lower labor investments to ensure that the overall long-term effect of the tax strategy is value-increasing.

Keywords: Tax planning; tax uncertainty; labor investment

JEL Classification: H26; D81; J23, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Traini, Simone and Goldman, Nathan C. and Lewellen, Christina, Aggressive Tax Planning and Labor Investments (February 23, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
S M Albring , L F Mills , K J Newberry
Do debt constraints influence firms' sensitivity to a temporary tax holiday on repatriations?
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
RANK
195,180
4 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies