Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trusts as Vehicles for Tax Evasion and Tax Avoidance: a Critical Study

Working paper series

10 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021

Mohammad Habibur Rahman

Cardiff University ; A.S & Associate

Date Written: September 1, 2020

Abstract

The legal arrangements related to the trusts are proved to be cumbersome and many also abuse this mechanism as a vehicle of tax evasion and avoidance. The secrecy is one of the disadvantages of the trusts which do not allow tax officials and other crime-fighting agencies to discover the existence of the trusts. This is also a case for the offshore trusts where foreign jurisdiction usually does not share the information with a third-party. This particular feature mainly popularized the notion of the offshore tax shelter. Undeniably, the trusts also have some positive implications which cannot be fulfilled by any other principle of law e.g. asset protection cases, commercial purpose, charitable trusts etc. Thus, this article intends to critically evaluate how trusts are often used as a vehicle for the tax evasion and avoidance particularly taking into account the political, social and moral contexts in which trusts operate.

Keywords: trusts and tax evasion, trusts as vehicle of tax avoidance, offshore trusts and tax avoidance, offshore tax shelter, trusts and tax

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Mohammad Habibur and Rahman, Mohammad Habibur, Trusts as Vehicles for Tax Evasion and Tax Avoidance: a Critical Study (September 1, 2020). Working paper series , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3844039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
630
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
96,929
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies