Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Disclosure of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit as an Indicator of Prosocial Employment Practices

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-28

53 Pages Posted: 23 May 2021 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Stefan Richter

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting; The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: April 1, 2023

Abstract

Increasing interest in the social pillar of ESG incentivizes ESG fund managers to seek indications of companies’ commitments to prosocial activities. We examine whether financial statement disclosure of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) increases the likelihood that a company is included in funds with a focus on the social pillar of ESG. The WOTC is a federal tax incentive for hiring individuals who have historically faced barriers to employment. We find companies disclosing the WOTC are more likely to be included in funds with a focus on the social pillar of ESG, relative to a balanced control sample. However, employees at disclosing companies provide less favorable Glassdoor ratings and reviews. Our results are consistent with ESG fund managers using WOTC disclosure as an indicator of prosocial employment practices, but the relatively more negative employee perceptions at disclosing firms suggest WOTC disclosure may not be a credible indicator.

Keywords: Work Opportunity Tax Credit; tax policy; ESG disclosure; prosocial employment practices.

JEL Classification: H25, I38

Suggested Citation:

Hutchens, Michelle and Richter, Stefan and Stomberg, Bridget and Williams, Brian, Using Disclosure of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit as an Indicator of Prosocial Employment Practices (April 1, 2023). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2021-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
O Ajilore
Did the Work Opportunity Tax Credit Cause Subsidized Worker Substitution?
Economic Development Quarterly , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 237 Posted: 2012
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
A Baker , D F Larcker , C Mcclure , D Saraph , E M Watts
Diversity Washing. Chicago Booth Research Paper , p. 22 - 40 Posted: 2022
N Bassett-Jones
The paradox of diversity management, creativity and innovation
Creativity and innovation management , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 175 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
241,875
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies