Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition of Taxes and Implementation of Tax Procedures by SMEs in Albania

Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 2, pp. 224-239

16 Pages Posted: 24 May 2021

Etleva Bajrami

Tirana University

Date Written: April 23, 2021

Abstract

In Albania, most businesses are classified as SMEs and their importance in the economy has grown exponentially in recent years. As SMEs comprise the majority of businesses, their taxes are crucial for the state budget. The purpose of this paper is to understand the SMEs’ attitude toward tax compliance. The objective of this research is to assess tax knowledge of SMEs as a precondition for tax compliance. Tax noncompliance has been a prevalent issue, and the tax authorities have undertaken a reform in this regard. This paper aims to understand the current situation regarding tax compliance. The current study is based on questionnaires distributed to 348 SMEs. Businesses responded to questions related to the recognition of taxes, duties and procedures. SMEs are separated in two groups, small and medium by annual turnover, in order to achieve the most accurate survey results. The results of the questions were not always the same for both groups. There are more small businesses that are not familiar with taxes, duties and tax procedures, resulting in conclusion that medium businesses are more tax compliant than small businesses. Tax authorities need to know the situation of SMEs, get their opinions on taxes and duties and take them into consideration.

Keywords: SME, compliance, taxes, Albania

JEL Classification: H26, E62, H32

Suggested Citation:

Bajrami, Etleva, Recognition of Taxes and Implementation of Tax Procedures by SMEs in Albania (April 23, 2021). Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 2, pp. 224-239, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
K A Abotsi , . G Dakey , A R
Factors influencing risk management decision of small and medium scale enterprises in Ghana
Contemporary Economics , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 397 - 414 Posted: 2014
Crossref
U S Agu , M I Okwo , D Ugwunta , A O &amp; Idike
Fiscal policy and economic growth in Nigeria emphasis on various components of public expenditure
SAGE OPEN , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Alm , G Mcclelland , W Schulze , A ; -M Aristovnik , A &amp;obadić
The impact and efficiency of public administration excellence on fostering SMEs in EU countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , issue 39 , p. 761 - 774 Posted: 1992
Crossref
W O Atawodi , A S Ojeka
Factors that affect tax compliance among small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in North Central Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 7 , issue 12 , p. 86 - 96 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rodrigo Fuentes-Solís , De la Fuente-Mella Hanns , Ana María Vallina-Hernández
Analysis of the Internationalization and Value Chain Activities in Chilean Enterprises
Contemporary Economics, Vol. 16 No 1, pp. 88-105, 2022 · 18 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 46
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
RANK
753,736
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies