Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Determinants and Effects of Corporate Tax Transparency: Review of an Emerging Literature

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 43

125 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021

Raphael Müller

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Heiko Vay

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2020

Abstract

In response to discussions about large multinational enterprises’ tax planning activities, legislators around the world have adopted numerous regulations to increase corporate tax transparency. New settings and datasets have spurred empirical research in recent years. Our paper presents a review of this emerging literature on corporate tax transparency. To this end, we first propose a framework to structure the diverse landscape of tax-related disclosures. Second, we elaborate on the conceptual underpinnings of tax transparency by drawing on established theories from financial accounting and CSR reporting research. Third, we survey empirical evidence on corporate tax transparency. We classify the findings into (i) determinants of firms’ tax disclosure decisions, (ii) informativeness of different kinds of tax-related disclosure, and (iii) effects of increased tax transparency on firms and their stakeholders. Finally, we synthesize the main inferences and offer suggestions for future research.

Keywords: F23, G38, H25, H26, M14, M41

JEL Classification: tax transparency, tax disclosure, tax planning, literature review

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Raphael and Spengel, Christoph and Vay, Heiko, On the Determinants and Effects of Corporate Tax Transparency: Review of an Emerging Literature (October 2020). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3853895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
182 References
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The Complementarity between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
Crossref
B C Ayers , C M Schwab , S Utke
Noncompliance with Mandatory Disclosure Requirements: The Magnitude and Determinants of Undisclosed Permanently Reinvested Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
Crossref
B Baik , K Kim , R Morton , Y Roh
Analysts' pre-tax income forecasts and the tax expense anomaly
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 559 - 595 Posted: 2016
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,584
RANK
26,540
10 Citations
182 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies