Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Morale as Perceived by Accounting Professionals

28 Pages Posted: 28 May 2021 Last revised: 2 Aug 2021

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Ivan R. F. Pereira

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 27, 2021

Abstract

This study evaluates taxpayer morale through the perception of accounting professionals, specifically whether there is an impact from i) penalties, ii) tax audit probability, iii) rewards, and iv) tax amnesties. A perception survey with accountants is more reliable than with the taxpayers because they tend to report accurate perceptions, knowing close the degree of tax morale of their clients. Based on the literature, it is observed that taxpayer behavior has been analyzed by the rational economic model and the so-called crime paradigm, which relied on the idea that taxpayers would be potential offenders, aiming only at advantages. With a multidisciplinary approach with a sociological and psychological perspective, tax morale was measured through a self-applied questionnaire, showing higher or lower accountants' perception on tax morale of taxpayers concerning the incentives analyzed captured from 344 Brazilian accountants. The research findings indicate that the application of punishments and penalties are the most potent instruments for raising tax compliance, along with the perceived likelihood of an audit. In contrast, the successive application of tax amnesty programs erodes tax morale. This research is relevant because it deepens the understanding of what legislators and tax administration can do or not do to encourage greater tax morale.

Keywords: Tax morale, tax compliance, rewards, tax amnesty, Accountants' perceptions

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and F. Pereira, Ivan R., Tax Morale as Perceived by Accounting Professionals (May 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3855177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3855177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , issue 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , G H Mccelland , W D W Schulze
Why do people pay taxes
Journal of Public Economics , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Alm , B Togler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Alm , E . Kirchler , S Muehlbacher , K . Gangl , E Hoffmann , C Kogler , M Pollai
Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Antonio Lopo Martinez , Tanisia Rodrigues
Navigating the Gray Zone: Accountants' Perceptions of Tax Morality Among Brazilian Micro-Entrepreneurs Facing Simples Nacional Exclusion
32 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2024 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
795
RANK
636,031
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies