Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Tax Planning Affect Firm Productivity?

accepted in Management Science

82 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 15 May 2025

Spyridon Gkikopoulos

The University of Machester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Konstantinos Stathopoulos

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

We examine the relation between corporate tax planning and firm-level productivity. Using a sample of U.S. public firms from 1993 to 2017, we find that tax planning is positively associated with productivity. Our findings further indicate that tax planning contributes to growth in production input factors — capital and labor. We also test the underlying mechanisms, documenting that the observed association between productivity and tax planning is more pronounced in financially constrained and knowledge capital-intensive firms. We exploit the initiation of new banking relationships and the introduction of Check-the-Box regulations as sources of tax planning variation to facilitate Difference-in-Differences analyses. The empirical evidence holds consistently across a wide array of robustness tests. Taken together, the results enhance the understanding on the economic implications of tax planning and provide insights for informed tax policy debates.

Keywords: Check-the-Box, Corporate tax planning, Productivity, Tax service providers, TFP

JEL Classification: D24, H21, H25, H26, J24

Suggested Citation:

Gkikopoulos, Spyridon and Lee, Edward and Stathopoulos, Konstantinos, Does Corporate Tax Planning Affect Firm Productivity? (May 15, 2025). accepted in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3856522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3856522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
D A Ackerberg , K Caves , G Frazer
Identification Properties of Recent Production Function Estimators
Econometrica , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 2411 - 2451 Posted: 2015
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
E Benmelech , C Frydman , D Papanikolaou
Financial Frictions and Employment During the Great Depression
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , issue 3 , p. 541 - 563 Posted: 2019
M Bertrand , E Duflo , S Mullainathan
How Much Should We Trust Differences-In-Differences Estimates?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,137
RANK
123,650
3 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies