Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China’s Perspectives on Distribution of Digital Gains

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy (2020) Volume 26, issue 3

Posted: 3 Jun 2021

Victoria Plekhanova

University of Auckland - Department of Commercial Law

Date Written: July 27, 2020

Abstract

Many countries believe that the existing mechanism for the international allocation of entitlements to tax business profits should be revised so that market jurisdictions can get their share of income tax revenue from cross-border trade. China insists that any revision should not be ring-fenced to digital businesses. This position can be interpreted in many ways. As a home to many large digital businesses, China may seek to delay or postpone changes to the existing international allocation of tax entitlements, or pressure developed countries to agree to minimal changes only. Alternatively, China, as a country with the second-largest consumer market in the world, may want more fundamental changes than many developed countries will be prepared to accept. Using the example of the Electronic World Trade Platform — a global online market initiative of Alibaba — this article examines the merits of the OECD’s Unified Approach to Pillar One proposal for China.

Keywords: taxation of digital services, China, Pillar One proposal

JEL Classification: k33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Plekhanova, Victoria, China’s Perspectives on Distribution of Digital Gains (July 27, 2020). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy (2020) Volume 26, issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3856730
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
216
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies