Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Services Taxes and the Unified Approach under the Pillar One Proposal: Exploring the Nexus Frameworks Through the Example of Alibaba

Australian Tax Review (2020) volume 49, issue 4, "Special Issue on International Tax"

24 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2021

Victoria Plekhanova

University of Auckland - Department of Commercial Law

Date Written: November 1, 2020

Abstract

With the rise of online marketplaces operating across national borders, many customer jurisdictions have found themselves lacking an opportunity to tax profits from these marketplaces’ activities. The year 2021 will reveal whether there is an international agreement that gives customer jurisdictions the entitlement to tax these profits under the existing international income tax system, or whether these jurisdictions have no option but to create this entitlement unilaterally and outside this system. This article uses the example of Alibaba and its Taobao business to compare nexus frameworks offered by a digital services tax unilaterally introduced in some jurisdictions and the OECD’s Unified Approach under the Pillar One proposal for the international agreement.

Keywords: taxation of digital services, Pillar One proposal, digital services tax, DST

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Plekhanova, Victoria, Digital Services Taxes and the Unified Approach under the Pillar One Proposal: Exploring the Nexus Frameworks Through the Example of Alibaba (November 1, 2020). Australian Tax Review (2020) volume 49, issue 4, "Special Issue on International Tax", Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3856721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
249,052
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies