Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Transparency and Social Welfare: The Role of Government Commitment

40 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021 Last revised: 31 Aug 2021

Chishio Furukawa

Department of Economics, Yokohama National University; affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 8, 2021

Abstract

Although transparency has long been held as the key principle of taxation, recent behavioral public finance theory has shown that it may reduce social welfare as inattention can alleviate behavioral distortions. This paper extends this analysis by modeling inattention as a noise in the tax rate signal received by Bayesian citizens. In equilibrium, we find that transparency will improve social welfare by ensuring the government's ability to commit to a fairly low tax rate that is socially optimal. Moreover, this model yields new sufficient statistics formulas that inform whether a policy effort to ensure tax transparency is socially worthwhile.

Keywords: tax transparency, commitment, inattention

JEL Classification: H21, D03, D83

Suggested Citation:

Furukawa, Chishio, Tax Transparency and Social Welfare: The Role of Government Commitment (June 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3862433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
D Acemoglu , M Golosov , A Tsyvinski
Political Economy of Mechanisms
Econometrica Posted: 2008
P Aghion , U Akcigit , M Lequien , S Stantcheva
Tax Simplicity and Heterogeneous Learning Posted: 2017
K Arrow
Discrimination in Labor Markets Posted: 1973
A Atkinson , J Stiglitz
The design of tax structure: Direct versus indirect taxation
Journal of Public Economics Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
320,086
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies