Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing the Top 100: U.S. Estimates of Winners and Losers From Pillar One Amount A

Reproduced with permission from Tax Management International Journal, 50 TMIJ 6, 06/04/2021. Copyright 2021 by The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. (800-372-1033) http://www.bna.com.

17 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2021

Lorraine Eden

Dept of Management, Mays Business School, Texas A&M University ; School of Law, Texas A&M University

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

The October 2020 Pillar One proposal by the OECD/Inclusive Framework (IF) is designed to shift some portion of the global pre-tax profits of multinational enterprises (MNEs) in automated digital services (ADS) and consumer-facing businesses (CFB) to Market jurisdictions where ADS and CFB revenues are generated. In April 2021, the U.S. government proposed that the OECD/IF reframe Amount A, broadening its industry scope from ADS and CFB to all industries and limiting the number of in-scope businesses to the world’s 100 largest and most profitable MNEs. How would changing the scope of Amount A from ADS and CFB to the top 100 global MNEs affect the likely winner and loser status of MNEs, industries and tax jurisdictions from Amount A? To address this question, I first use Fortune Global 500 data to examine the top 200 MNEs by industry and home country. My results suggest several issues and concerns about how the U.S. proposal to tax the top 100 would work in practice. I then assess the tax base impacts of the U.S proposal using U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) data. Estimates of corporate income tax (CIT) base gains and losses, by country and industry, are provided for jurisdictions that are host countries to MOFAs (majority-owned foreign affiliates with U.S. parents) and are home countries to MOUSAs (U.S. majority-owned affiliates with foreign parents). I conclude that key factors determining winners and losers from Amount A under the U.S. proposal would be: (1) whether MNEs in financial and natural resource industries would be included or excluded from Amount A; (2) how tax base relief would be provided by Residence jurisdictions on territorial CIT systems, in particular, the United States and Europe; and (3) whether tax jurisdictions and MNEs would take advantage of opportunities to engage in Pillar One Tax Games.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, International Tax, OECD, BEPS, Pillar One, Taxing the Digital Economy, Fortune 500, Corporate Income Tax, Foreign Source Income, U.S. Tax Policy

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26, K34, K420, K330, L11

Suggested Citation:

Eden, Lorraine, Taxing the Top 100: U.S. Estimates of Winners and Losers From Pillar One Amount A (June 7, 2021). Reproduced with permission from Tax Management International Journal, 50 TMIJ 6, 06/04/2021. Copyright 2021 by The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. (800-372-1033) http://www.bna.com., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
734
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,442
RANK
79,647
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies