Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Governance and Personal Income Tax Compliance in Nigeria

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research 2021, Vol.9, No. 5, pp.16-35

20 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2021

Olurankinse Felix

Adekunle Ajasin University - Department of Accounting

Oloruntoba Sunday Rufus

Adekunle Ajasin University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

This study is to examine the good governance and personal income tax compliance in Nigeria and study basically adopt the survey research design in which structured questionnaire is designed and distributed to the respondents as a means of gathering information. population of this study comprises of all the staff of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State, Nigeria and the total number of staff as at 31st December, 2020 is one thousand four hundred and fifty (1450). The classes of personnel to be administered with the questionnaire include senior staff, junior staff and the management staff. Because of the sensitive nature of the study, and to ensure a credible and reliable data, the population cuts across all categories of workers. with the sample size of 314, a multiple regression model is specified in equation (i). This multiple regression econometric models explain the variation in the values of the dependent variable (Personal Income Tax Compliance) on the basis of change in other independent variables (Perception of tax payer of a good governance, Tax fairness). Panel Least Square (PLS) regression technique was used for the study. It was discovered that there is significant relationship between tax fairness and personal income tax in Nigeria and also there are perceptions of tax payers towards good governance and personal income tax compliance in the country. Specifically, tax fairness enhances the personal income tax compliance among the sampled respondents and perception tax payer of a good governance contribute significantly to the personal income tax compliance. The study concluded that if tax fairness is well enhanced, tax payer will be highly interested in paying their personal income tax. The problem of lack of compliance is common among the informal sector who often bear the brunt of the bad governance. It is obvious that tax compliance will increase if good governance can be perceived by the people. Respondents are ready to comply with the law but the revenue collected must be judiciously used.

Keywords: tax compliance, tax fairness, good governance, personal income tax, perception of tax payers

Suggested Citation:

Felix, Olurankinse and Sunday Rufus, Oloruntoba Sunday, Good Governance and Personal Income Tax Compliance in Nigeria (June 28, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research 2021, Vol.9, No. 5, pp.16-35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3875458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
935
RANK
213,115
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies