Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stamp Duty and Equity in Australia

Melbourne Institute Working Paper No. 08/21

41 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2021

Manning Clifford

affiliation not provided to SSRN

John W. Freebairn

University of Melbourne - Department of Economics

Date Written: June 22, 2021

Abstract

Stamp duty is a core part of the Australian tax system, but large components of its effect on the economy are unknown. In particular, the distribution of stamp duty's costs are not well understood. This has been hampered by a lack of quantitative studies of stamp duty's costs, and by limited discussion of stamp duty's effect on rental markets. This paper addresses this gap by establishing a theoretical framework for understanding stamp duty's incidence, and then by estimating the distribution of its costs. We find that stamp duty is a regressive tax, and that this regressiveness is predominantly due to the fact that housing costs are a significantly higher share of household income in low income households. We also find that the economic incidence of stamp duty is not particularly relevant to interrogations of how costs are distributed, because (unlike in many other markets), most people who sell housing tend to purchase houses of a similar value within a short time period of selling. We also provide some thoughts on current reform proposals and then discuss how land taxes could be designed in light of political barriers.

Keywords: Transfer taxes, stamp duty, equity, tax incidence, transaction costs

JEL Classification: D23, H22, H23, H27, R21, R31, R38

Suggested Citation:

Clifford, Manning and Freebairn, John W., Stamp Duty and Equity in Australia (June 22, 2021). Melbourne Institute Working Paper No. 08/21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3875060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3875060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Government finance statistics," data release
Australian Bureau of Statistics Posted: 2003
J D Benjamin , N E Coulson , S X Yang
Real estate transfer taxes and property values: The Philadelphia story
Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 7 , p. 151 - 157 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P Bentley , M Cruz
A plan to end stamp duty: making property taxation fairer in New South Wales, McKell Institute Posted: 2016-03
Crossref
G Bérard , A Trannoy
The impact of the 2014 increase in the real estate transfer taxes on the French housing market
Economie et Statistique , volume 500 , p. 179 - 200 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Philip Chang , Jeffrey Hole , Yan Liang , Jakob Madsen , Xueli Tang
Stamp duty and spatial misallocation
Macroeconomic Dynamics , volume 29 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
418,383
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies