Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Numbers and ETR Forecasting

54 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021 Last revised: 1 Apr 2024

Carly Burd

North Carolina State University

Date Written: March 29, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and implications of the volume of tax-related numbers reported in the financial statements. I document that the volume of tax-related numbers increases with tax reporting requirements and decreases with the complexity of the tax rate, implying that firms with greater proprietary costs decrease their numeric disclosures once they meet mandatory reporting requirements. With respect to implications, I document that firms reporting more tax-related numbers improve the transparency of the information environment, incrementally reducing analysts’ implied effective tax rate forecast errors and dispersion. Further investigation suggests that this relationship is driven by more tax-related numbers reported in the financial statement footnotes rather than in the face of the financial statements. Overall, these findings suggest firms’ tax information environment improves with a greater volume of numeric tax-related disclosures.

Keywords: Tax, XBRL, Disclosure, Financial Analyst, ETR Forecast

JEL Classification: M40, M41, D80, D83

Suggested Citation:

Burd, Carlyle, Tax Numbers and ETR Forecasting (March 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3876754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
257,421
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies