Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance of Malaysian Public Listed Companies: A Multi-Measure Analysis

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Mohanadas, N.D; Salim, A.S.A; Ramasamy, S. (2021). Corporate Tax Avoidance of Malaysian Public Listed Companies: A Multi-Measure Analysis, Accounting and Finance Review, 6(1): 44 – 53. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.1(1)

10 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Nirmala Devi Mohanadas

Faculty of Business, Multimedia University, Malaysia

Abdullah Sallehhuddin Abdullah Salim

Student Affairs Division, Multimedia University

Suganthi Ramasamy

Multimedia University

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - Even with corporate tax avoidance being extensively studied, it is still lacking a single universal measurement. There is also a dearth of studies focusing on developing economies such as Malaysia. This study, therefore, analyses the correlations between effective tax rates (ETRs) and book-tax differences (BTDs), which are the most commonly used measures of corporate tax avoidance on Malaysian listed companies for ten years.

Methodology/Technique - This study performs distribution, frequency, and correlation analyses on the ETRs and BTDs of the Top 300 companies listed in the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia based on market capitalization. The data used spans a ten-year period from 2010 to 2019.

Findings - The results of the distribution, frequency, and correlation analyses show that both these measures are closely related gauges of corporate tax avoidance.

Novelty - The results of this study provide further statistical proof that ETR and BTD measures of corporate tax avoidance are closely related. Its utilization of data from listed companies in Malaysia expands the current body of literature by addressing corporate tax avoidance practice in a developing economy. By concentrating on both ETR and BTD measures, this study's analysis is consistent with the broad continuum of corporate tax avoidance spectrum and significantly reduces the risk of warping its determination of tax avoidance level.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Cash ETR; corporate tax avoidance; GAAP ETR; permanent BDT; total BTD.

JEL Classification: G30, H25, H26, M40.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Mohanadas, Nirmala Devi and Salim, Abdullah Sallehhuddin Abdullah and Ramasamy, Suganthi, Corporate Tax Avoidance of Malaysian Public Listed Companies: A Multi-Measure Analysis (June 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Mohanadas, N.D; Salim, A.S.A; Ramasamy, S. (2021). Corporate Tax Avoidance of Malaysian Public Listed Companies: A Multi-Measure Analysis, Accounting and Finance Review, 6(1): 44 – 53. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.1(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,093
RANK
227,633
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies