Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Phenomenology of Employee Income Tax Policies during the COVID-19 in Indonesia

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Prawira, I.F.A; Zulhaimi, H. (2021). Phenomenology of Employee Income Tax Policies during the Covid – 19 in Indonesia, Accounting and Finance Review, 6(1): 68 – 75. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.1(3)

9 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2021

Ida Farida Adi Prawira

Universitas Pendidikan Indonesia, Bandung, Indonesia

Hanifa Zulhaimi

Universitas Pendidikan Indonesia, Bandung, Indonesia

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - Covid-19 is a disaster that impacts various sectors of life, one of which has an impact on a country's tax revenue. Tax incentives are one of the policy steps that the Indonesian government has taken to face the economic strike due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This study aims to examine the factors that influence the implementation of employee income tax policies during the Covid-19.

Methodology/Technique - This is a qualitative research using an interpretive paradigm with phenomenological methods. The data of this study are the results of observations and interviews with Corporate Taxpayers, Tax Experts, and Tax Officers. Based on the results of the interview, there are several factors that affect taxpayers' willingness to take advantage of this policy, including the ease of submitting incentives, certainty not to be audited, and not adding to the company's burden.

Findings - Employers take advantage of this incentive, namely the company has an interest in maintaining the internal stability of the company. The provision of this incentive will increase (at least maintain) the purchasing power of workers and create a conducive business atmosphere. So, it is true that entrepreneurs will flock to take advantage of this facility.

Novelty - This policy is expected to reduce the burden on business activities and help improve the condition of the company's cash flow, particularly during and after the epidemic. Thus, the company is expected not to terminate employment. If this condition occurs, there is potential for the national economy to keep moving, both in terms of production and consumption.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Employee Income Tax; Tax Policy; Tax Incentive; Covid-19

JEL Classification: H24, H29.

Suggested Citation:

Prawira, Ida Farida Adi and Zulhaimi, Hanifa, Phenomenology of Employee Income Tax Policies during the COVID-19 in Indonesia (June 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Prawira, I.F.A; Zulhaimi, H. (2021). Phenomenology of Employee Income Tax Policies during the Covid – 19 in Indonesia, Accounting and Finance Review, 6(1): 68 – 75. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.1(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3877208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
David R. Agrawal , William H. Hoyt , John Douglas Wilson
Local Policy Choice: Theory and Empirics
Pages: 109 Posted: 24 Mar 2020 Last revised: 17 Oct 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis , K Kost , M Sammon , T Viratyosin
The unprecedented stock market reaction to COVID-19
Review of Asset Pricing Studies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 742 - 758 Posted: 2020
Crossref
A Bénassy-Quéré , B Mauro
Europe in the time of Covid-19: A new crash test and a new opportunity
Europe in the Time of Covid-19 Posted: 2020
T Expenditures
Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
610,038
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies