Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Instagram Influencers

RADVAN, Michal. Taxation of Instagram Influencers. Studia Iuridica Lublinensia. Lublin: Faculty of Law and Administration, UMCS in Lublin, 2021, vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 339-356. ISSN 1731-6375. doi:10.17951/sil.2021.30.2.339-356.

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2021

Michal Radvan

Masaryk University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 1, 2021

Abstract

This scientific article discusses issues related to the taxation of Instagram influencers. Its main objective is to define how the influencers’ incomes should be taxed. To achieve this primary purpose, the partial objective is defined to give the list of (legal) cooperation contracts between the marketers and influencers. The hypothesis that there is no need to adopt new specific tax law norms to tax influencers’ incomes properly, at least in developed countries, was confirmed. All jurisdictions are taxing influencers’ incomes. It is always necessary to focus on the content of the relationship generating influencer’s income, as the principle of priority of content over form must be used. The tax liability is influenced only by the tax base. The tax rate and other structural components of the tax remain the same for different types of incomes. Generally, it is always better for the influencer to have a trading license (to be a businessman) than tax his/her incomes as incomes from copyright. Incomes from dependent activities based on labour law contract or occasional incomes are not probable for a typical influencer, and still, the taxation in this way is not realy favourable. The novelty of the presented research lies in the fact that no scientific articles deal with the covered issues published so far. The author believes that the article has a cognitive value for both science and practice.

Keywords: tax law; taxation; copyright; income; influencer; Instagram

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Radvan, Michal, Taxation of Instagram Influencers (July 1, 2021). RADVAN, Michal. Taxation of Instagram Influencers. Studia Iuridica Lublinensia. Lublin: Faculty of Law and Administration, UMCS in Lublin, 2021, vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 339-356. ISSN 1731-6375. doi:10.17951/sil.2021.30.2.339-356., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
167,202
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Intellectual Property: Copyright Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies