Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From 30,000 Feet Into the Weeds

From 30,000 Feet Into the Weeds, Tax Notes State, Dec. 16, 2019, p. 875

1 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021 Last revised: 16 Sep 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Date Written: December 1, 2019

Abstract

In this article, Professor Pomp makes various predictions regarding the future of the tax law.

Artificial intelligence will continue to change the legal landscape. The IRS uses AI to predict the likelihood of nonpayment, abusive tax returns, underreporting, and nonfiling. It also uses AI to mine social media accounts for evidence of theft and tax fraud. Moreover, AI allows firms to analyze large data sets and predict how courts will resolve legal issues in tax cases.

Pomp predicts litigation surrounding the use of market-based sourcing arising from ambiguous terms like “benefit,” “delivery,” and “use.” He also expects litigation resulting from the intersection of market-based sourcing and single-sales-factor apportionment.

Pomp hopes that “but for” reasoning, urged by states hoping for beneficial apportionment outcomes, will be rejected. These states argue that “but for” the final step in a complicated multistate transaction—typically the payment by the end user—there would be no income to apportion. But this perspective ignores all of the “but for” causes that were necessary for that sale to occur.

The European Union and the OECD will further recognize what the American states have known for decades: formulary apportionment is superior to arm’s-length accounting.

Pomp also expects that more taxpayers will enter into joint ventures with American Indian Tribes to exploit the case law on tribal sovereignty and immunities.

Keywords: tax, tax law, future, articifical intelligence, AI, IRS, multi state tax, EU, OECD, state tax, market-based sourcing, apportionment, social media

JEL Classification: h71, h20, k34, h26

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard, From 30,000 Feet Into the Weeds (December 1, 2019). From 30,000 Feet Into the Weeds, Tax Notes State, Dec. 16, 2019, p. 875, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3879692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
RANK
644,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies