Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Information Quality and State Tax Planning

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Jul 2021

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Daniel Lynch

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 2, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the association between internal information quality and state tax planning. Prior literature documents a positive association between internal information quality and summary measures of tax avoidance. However, we know little about specific forms of tax planning internal information quality facilitates. State tax planning is difficult because of the number of jurisdictions, variety of tax rules, variation of enforcement, and apportionment requirements. We find internal information quality facilitates state tax planning and is most important when firms face more restrictive state tax laws and for domestic firms relative to multinational firms with international income shifting opportunities. Our results provide a baseline of the economic effects of internal information quality on different forms of tax planning. Understanding internal information quality’s role in state tax planning is especially relevant as countries propose to modify international tax rules to mirror the state taxation format of a single entity system with apportionment.

Keywords: internal information, tax avoidance, tax planning, state tax, foreign tax, federal tax

JEL Classification: H26, H71, H72

Suggested Citation:

Kelley, Stacie and Lynch, Daniel and Vernon, Mary, Internal Information Quality and State Tax Planning (July 2, 2021). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3881106
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies