Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The concerns of linking IRS tax disclosures to financial statements on analysts' effective tax rate forecasts

Advances in Accounting, volume 66, 2024[10.1016/j.adiac.2023.100687]

Posted: 12 Jul 2021

Dana Hollie

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Russell Barber

University of Colorado Denver

Norman Massel

Loyola University of Chicago

Date Written: July 6, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the effect of uncertain tax position (UTP) disclosures on analysts’ effective tax rate (ETR) forecasts. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires that firms provide detailed information about UTPs reported in their annual 10-K filings on their Schedule UTP form. Schedule UTP applies to federal tax positions for which a corresponding tax reserve has been created for financial reporting purposes. Academics and practitioners have deliberated whether Schedule UTP disclosures could lead to firms altering how they account for their unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs) in financial statements. Overall, we find that UTB additions were originally useful to analysts in forecasting ETRs but became less useful after the implementation of the Schedule UTP form, as it likely reduced the usefulness of information for financial statement users. Our findings contribute to the debate regarding the extent of tax policy overlapping with the generally accepted accounting principles of financial reporting. Our results are also timely, given that the Treasury Department is currently considering additional Schedule UTP disclosure requirements, which may further incentivize firms to alter UTB reporting in their financial statements. 

Keywords: uncertain tax positions, disclosure quality, effective tax rates, analysts’ earnings forecasts, unrecognized tax benefits

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hollie, Dana and Barber, Russell and Massel, Norman, The concerns of linking IRS tax disclosures to financial statements on analysts' effective tax rate forecasts (July 6, 2021). Advances in Accounting, volume 66, 2024[10.1016/j.adiac.2023.100687], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.adiac.2023.100687
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies