Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Scalar Conception of Tax Residence for Individuals

41 Virginia Tax Review 149 (2020)

54 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2021 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: July 20, 2021

Abstract

Residence is one of the fundamental concepts in international taxation. As a rule, residents are taxed on their worldwide income while nonresidents are taxed only on their domestic-source income. The criteria for residence vary from country to country. Some countries look to physical presence. Other rely upon more obtuse concepts such as domicile, permanent home, ordinary residence, habitual abode, connections, or ties. Many countries use a variety of tests. Tax treaties typically employ a series of tie-breaking provisions to determine residency when each of the two signatories views an individual as a resident in accordance with its own domestic rules.

Despite the wide variety of tests for determining individual residence, all share a common underlying premise, namely that residence is a binary attribute. An individual either is or is not a resident. There are no shades of grey. An individual who barely satisfies the relevant test is classified as a resident, while an individual who just fails to do so is classified as a nonresident.

This structure is not normatively justifiable. The most persuasive explanation for the disparate tax treatment of residents and nonresidents is that from the perspective of distributive justice, individuals have qualitatively different rights and obligations vis-à-vis other members of the society to which they belong than they have vis-à-vis others. However, it is difficult to defend the proposition that, for those on the margin, an infinitesimally small change in circumstance could affect such a significant change in moral obligations. It is more reasonable to posit that the intensity of these rights and obligations varies along a continuum: that the closer one’s connection to a country, the more intense are one’s societal rights and obligations. An alternative explanation for the disparate tax treatment of residents and nonresidents is that the former benefit from government services in a manner in which the latter do not. This explanation, too, cannot ground a binary conception of residence. Presumably individuals who maintain varying degrees of connection with a country will procure varying degrees of benefit from public expenditures.

The thesis of this Article is that residence should be viewed on a continuum, from complete absence of association with a particular country on the one extreme to exclusive association (that is, lack of association with any other country) on the other. The extent to which an individual is subject to tax on foreign-source income should be a function of that individual’s degree of connectedness to the country, in accordance with whatever criteria the country concerned considers relevant. Thus, where residency is determined by physical presence, the more days an individual is physically present in the country during the tax year (or during a succession of tax years), the greater the tax burden that would be imposed on that individual’s foreign-source income.

As opposed to the current binary definition, a scalar conception of individual residence would more accurately represent real-world connections between individuals and countries, would better accord with the principle of horizontal equity, and would be less manipulable. After making the normative and practical case for a scalar conception of residence, the Article goes on to address a number of possible challenges to its adoption. It also considers the role of citizenship as a determinant of subjectivity to taxation. It argues that in the current context citizenship and residence are commensurable values and that the tax law should assign each an appropriate weight when determining the extent of an individual’s association with the country.

Keywords: taxation, international taxation, residence

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, A Scalar Conception of Tax Residence for Individuals (July 20, 2021). 41 Virginia Tax Review 149 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3889245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3889245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
186,369
2 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies