Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) : A Quantitative Evaluation of Key Provisions

Review of Economic Dynamics, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2021

Teegawende H. Zeida

Brock University-Department of Economics

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) significantly altered how business income is taxed in the US. This paper provides a quantitative assessment of the distributional and macroeconomic effects of the TCJA, both in the short run and in the long run, using a life-cycle model with occupational choice and accumulation of entrepreneurial human capital. When salient provisions of the TCJA are implemented, the economy will experience an increase of 0.20 and 0.5 percentage points in annual GDP and capital stock growth for the first decade 2018-2027, respectively. However, economic inequality increases across and within occupations under the TCJA. The provisions affect the incentives for individuals to save, making the occupational choice extensive margin critically important in analyzing the potential impacts of the new tax reform.

Keywords: TCJA, Tax cuts, Entrepreneurship, Differential taxation, Inequality, Transition path

JEL Classification: E21, E62, H21, J24

Suggested Citation:

Zeida, Teegawende H., The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) : A Quantitative Evaluation of Key Provisions (June 15, 2021). Review of Economic Dynamics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3891789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3891789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
RANK
461,979
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies