Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Overseas Americans Be Required to Buy Their Freedom?

Snyder, Laura; Alpert, Karen; and Richardson, John, "Should Overseas Americans Be Required to Buy Their Freedom?" 172 Tax Notes Federal 223 (2021).

17 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Laura Snyder

Association of Americans Resident Overseas (AARO); Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Karen Alpert

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

John Richardson

Citizenship Solutions; Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Date Written: July 12, 2021

Abstract

The United States is the only developed country to practice a system of extraterritorial taxation that treats the tax residents of other countries as simultaneously subject to U.S. worldwide taxation based on citizenship. This extraterritorial tax system is a separate and more punitive tax system than that applied to U.S. residents and imposes unwarranted restrictions on the right of U.S. citizens to live where they choose. For these reasons, the taxation of nonresident citizens must end.

Among the impediments to ending extraterritorial taxation is the widespread assumption that any legislative solution must be revenue neutral. This assumption is, for the most part, unchallenged. This belief, however, leads to a trap from which there is no escape. Further, it misconstrues the problem as one of mere payment of tax rather than of fundamental immorality and injustice, and it demonstrates a misunderstanding of the purpose of taxation and of how the U.S. federal government is funded.

The U.S. extraterritorial tax system appears to have been conceived and continues to exist only to discourage Americans from living outside the United States — a human right — and to punish those who dare to do so.

It is imperative to challenge the belief that revenue neutrality is a condition for ending extraterritorial taxation. Not to do so is to doom efforts to move the United States to a more just tax system for all its citizens.

Keywords: Revenue Neutrality, Extraterritorial Taxation, Citizenship-Based Taxation, Residency-Based Taxation, Morality, Modern Monetary Theory, Department of Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, Citizenship, International Taxation, Human Rights, Taxpayer Bill of Rights

JEL Classification: E42, E50, H20, H24, H30, H31, H50, H60, H61, H62, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Snyder, Laura and Alpert, Karen and Richardson, John, Should Overseas Americans Be Required to Buy Their Freedom? (July 12, 2021). Snyder, Laura; Alpert, Karen; and Richardson, John, "Should Overseas Americans Be Required to Buy Their Freedom?" 172 Tax Notes Federal 223 (2021)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,820
RANK
217,471
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies