Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Tax Gap Hypothesis: An Exploratory Analysis and Application to U.S. Financial Markets

Cebula, Richard J. (2020) "The Relative Tax Gap Hypothesis: An Exploratory Analysis and Application to U.S. Financial Markets," American Business Review: Vol. 23 : No. 1 , Article 4. DOI: https://doi.org/10.37625/abr.23.1.35-52

19 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021

Richard Cebula

George Mason University

Date Written: May 15, 2020

Abstract

This study empirically investigates the “relative tax gap hypothesis,” which posits that the greater the size of the relative tax gap, the greater the degree to which the U.S. Treasury must borrow from domestic and/or other credit markets and hence the higher the ex ante real interest rate yield on the Bellwether 30 year U.S. Treasury bond. The study uses the most current data available for computing what is referred to here as the “relative tax gap,” which is the ratio of the aggregate tax gap (the loss in federal income tax revenue resulting from personal income tax evasion) to the GDP level. For each year of the study period, the nominal value of the tax gap is scaled by the nominal GDP level and expressed as a percentage. The study period runs from 1982 through 2016, reflecting data availability for all of the variables. The estimation results provide strong support for the hypothesis. In addition, in separate estimations, evidence is provided that the relative tax gap also acts to elevate the ex ante real interest rate yield on Moody’s Baa-rated long-term corporate bonds. It logically follows, then, that to the extent that a greater relative tax gap leads to higher ex ante real interest rates, it may contribute to the crowding out of corporate investment in new plant equipment associated heretofore with government budget deficits per se.

Keywords: aggregate personal income tax evasion, the relative tax gap, ex ante real interest rate yield on the Bellwether bond, Moody’s Baa-rated long-term corporate bonds, reduced investment in new plant and equipment

JEL Classification: E26, E43, H26

Suggested Citation:

Cebula, Richard, The Relative Tax Gap Hypothesis: An Exploratory Analysis and Application to U.S. Financial Markets (May 15, 2020). Cebula, Richard J. (2020) "The Relative Tax Gap Hypothesis: An Exploratory Analysis and Application to U.S. Financial Markets," American Business Review: Vol. 23 : No. 1 , Article 4. DOI: https://doi.org/10.37625/abr.23.1.35-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3893729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Aisen , D Hauner
Budget deficits and interest rates: A fresh perspective
Applied Economics , volume 42 , p. 2501 - 2510 Posted: 2008
M M Ali , H W Cecil , J A Knoblett
The effects of tax rates and enforcement policies on taxpayer compliance: A study of self-employed taxpayers
Atlantic Economic Journal , volume 29 , p. 186 - 202 Posted: 2001
B Ameyaw , D Dzaka
Determinants of tax evasion: Empirical evidence from Ghana
Modern Economy , volume 7 , p. 1633 - 1664 Posted: 2016
B Ameyaw , B Addai , E Ashalley , I Quaye
The effects of personal income tax evasion on socio-economic development in Ghana: A case study of the informal economy
British Journal of Economics , volume 10 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies