Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Income Shifting in an Era of Tax Multilateralism: The Impact of Exchange-of-Information Agreements

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 69, No. 2, 2021, pp. 357-389

34 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Devan Mescall

University of Saskatchewan

Paul Nielsen

TideWater Midstream and Infrastructure Ltd.

Date Written: August 3, 2021

Abstract

Using data from the annual reports of over 100,000 subsidiaries of multinational enterprises (MNEs) from 55 countries between 2003 and 2012, the authors of this article investigate the impact of exchange-of-information agreements ("EOI agreements") on tax-motivated income shifting. Transparency created by the signing of EOI agreements is expected to reduce the tax-motivated shifting of income by multinational corporations. Whether such agreements affect the income-shifting behaviour of multinational corporations is an unanswered question. The authors find evidence that, on average, EOI agreements do have an impact on tax-motivated income shifting. Additionally, they find that more advanced, modern EOI agreements are associated with a larger decrease in tax-motivated income shifting compared to the impact of early EOI agreements. This evidence challenges the prevalent assumption in empirical studies that EOI agreements are homogeneous. Supplemental analyses suggest that factors that affect the information asymmetry between MNEs and tax authorities, such as corporations with high levels of intangibles and tax authorities with strong transfer-pricing rules and enforcement, can diminish or enhance the effectiveness of EOI agreements in moderating tax-motivated income shifting. The evidence provided by this study shows that consideration of the tax authorities' information environment and the substance of an EOI agreement is essential when assessing the impact of such an agreement on the tax behaviour of sophisticated taxpayers such as multinational corporations.

Keywords: Information exchange, agreements, multinational corporations, avoidance, compliance, enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Mescall, Devan and Nielsen, Paul, Corporate Income Shifting in an Era of Tax Multilateralism: The Impact of Exchange-of-Information Agreements (August 3, 2021). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 69, No. 2, 2021, pp. 357-389, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3894545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
653,956
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies