Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distributive Justice in International Tax Law

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2021-02

Final publication as "Tax Justice Beyond National Borders – International or Interpersonal?", Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 2021, https://doi.org/10.1093/ojls/gqab026 (open access)

Posted: 28 Jul 2021 Last revised: 14 Sep 2021

Johanna Stark

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: February 16, 2021

Abstract

Recent times have seen growing calls for considerations of justice to be given a greater role in international tax law. The main driver of these calls are distributive concerns, although agreement is still missing as to what this means in terms of both principle and practice. This article asks whether it is the task of international tax law at all to implement principles of distributive justice beyond the national context and gives an overview of how the ‘global justice debate’ in contemporary moral and political philosophy bears on this question. With regard to the more specific question of whether some states are, as a matter of distributive justice in particular, under a duty to agree to a redistribution of taxing rights to other states, the paper argues that it is crucial to differentiate between the collective level inhabited by states and international institutions on one hand, and individuals on the other. Absent a robust assumption of a benevolent and capable government on the recipient side, the reallocation of taxing rights from state to state does not necessarily help when it comes to fulfilling duties of justice towards individuals.

Keywords: Taxation, Distributive Justice, International Taxation, Global Justice, Legal Philosophy

JEL Classification: K34, H87

Suggested Citation:

Stark, Johanna, Distributive Justice in International Tax Law (February 16, 2021). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2021-02, Final publication as "Tax Justice Beyond National Borders – International or Interpersonal?", Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 2021, https://doi.org/10.1093/ojls/gqab026 (open access) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3894829
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
925
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies