Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Tax Transfer Pricing Harmonization a Panacea? Real Effects of Global Tax Transparency and Standards Consistency

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 57

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-05

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review

49 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021 Last revised: 26 Nov 2024

Markus Diller

University of Passau

Johannes Lorenz

University of Regensburg; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Georg Thomas Schneider

University of Graz

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 29, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of the harmonization of tax transfer pricing across jurisdictions on multinational companies’ reporting and tax authorities’ auditing strategies. Applying a game-theoretical approach, we assess how enhancing standards consistency and global tax transparency influences tax avoidance and double taxation, producer and consumer surplus, and countries’ tax revenue. Although increasing transparency is generally perceived to discourage tax avoidance, we show that this effect vanishes when standards are inconsistent. We demonstrate that high global tax transparency and consistent standards maximize global social welfare. However, from the perspective of multinational companies or individual countries, the optimal mix of consistency and transparency may differ. These findings highlight why transfer pricing harmonization is difficult and how single-player incentives undermine the envisioned benefits of tax harmonization. This study offers valuable insights for policymakers who aim to curb tax avoidance and mitigate the risk of double taxation.

Keywords: transfer pricing, standards inconsistency, tax harmonization, tax transparency, tax avoidance, real effects

JEL Classification: H20, H26, C72, K34, F53

Suggested Citation:

Diller, Markus and Lorenz, Johannes and Schneider, Georg Thomas and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Is Tax Transfer Pricing Harmonization a Panacea? Real Effects of Global Tax Transparency and Standards Consistency (July 29, 2021). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 57, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-05, Forthcoming in The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3895611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
B N Anand , R Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy , volume 53 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2000
T Baldenius , N D Melumad , S Reichelstein
Integrating Managerial and Tax Objectives in Transfer Pricing
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 591 - 615 Posted: 2004
J S Banks , J Sobel
Equilibrium Selection in Signaling Games
Econometrica , volume 55 , p. 647 - 661 Posted: 1987
F Baumann , T Friehe
Profit Shifting Despite Symmetric Tax Rates? A Note on the Role of Tax Enforcement
International Economic Journal , volume 27 , p. 97 - 108 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
202,182
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies