Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Widow Tax Hit: Much Ado About Nothing?

13 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2021 Last revised: 12 Aug 2021

Edward F. McQuarrie

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

The widow tax hit ranks high among the fear appeals used by financial advisors to motivate client behavior. The pitch exploits the fact that tax brackets for singles may be only half as large as for married filing joint. Cognitive errors catalogued in behavioral finance, such as the availability heuristic, explain why retired couples can be made to worry about the tax rate the widowed survivor will have to pay, leading to the fear that it may be significantly higher and require a cutback in living standards. This paper is designed to allay that fear and immunize the retiree against sales pitches that manipulate it. The paper demonstrates that for affluent couples taking social security and Medicare, the tax hit from the survivor entering the single brackets is likely to be inconsequential, once necessary reductions in expenditure are taken into account. By contrast, loss of income, as when one social security payment disappears, may indeed threaten living standards, and the paper briefly examines potential solutions ranging from Roth conversions to life insurance. [This version contains minor updates and corrections.]


Keywords: widow tax, tax planning, behavioral finance, IRMAA, tax torpedo

JEL Classification: D14, G02

Suggested Citation:

McQuarrie, Edward F., The Widow Tax Hit: Much Ado About Nothing? (August 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3896672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3896672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
870
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,931
RANK
63,484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies