Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attractive Sources. Tax Havens’ Emergence: Mythical Origins versus Structural Evolutions

23 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2021

Christophe Farquet

Université de Genève

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract


The article proposes a new interpretation of the development of tax havens in the 19th and 20th centuries. Few historians have addressed this issue, and the long-term narratives over the evolution of tax havens remain unconvincing and rely on several misconceptions and anachronisms.

The article first examines the supposed origins of tax havens before the First World War. It contradicts the idea that the modern history of tax havens began during the financial globalization of the Belle Epoque. Indeed, movements of capital flight caused by taxation became significant only from 1914 onwards due to the rise in taxes in warring countries. The second part of the article thus focuses on the development of tax havens during the interwar years by demonstrating how offshore centres already played a crucial role in the functioning of the gold exchange standard in Europe at the time – a fact that financial history has overlooked. Finally, the article analyses the revival of the offshore economy that occurred after a period of decline from the end of the 1950s onwards. It challenges the thesis that this resurgence was deeply driven by decolonisation and highlights the process that connected the financial liberalization in rich countries to the regeneration of tax havens.

This article provides the first serious long-term perspective on this subject based on extensive investigations into archives. As such, it offers a significant contribution to economic history.


Keywords: Finance; offshore; tax havens; history; Switzerland

Suggested Citation:

Farquet, Christophe, Attractive Sources. Tax Havens’ Emergence: Mythical Origins versus Structural Evolutions (August 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3897377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3897377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Christophe Farquet
The Swiss Confederation and the German Reich during the 1920s', Economic History Yearbook, forthcoming
From the beginning of the 1920s to 1945, 2,504 domiciled companies were implemented in Liechtenstein. However, foreigners also used other sorts of companies and financial structures. See Hanspeter Lussy and Rodrigo López
, volume 2 , p. 96 - 97 Posted: 2005
Avoidance of British direct taxation…
TNA Posted: 1923
Loi sur les holdings companies
Travaux préparatoires et Discussions parlementaires, séances des 16 et 17 juillet 1929 Posted: 1929
Load more
1 Citations
James Hollis
Tax Evasion and Tax Havens since the Nineteenth Century
, p. 289 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,424
RANK
210,213
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies