Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion Policies and the Demand for Cash

60 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2021

Edoardo Rainone

Bank of Italy

Date Written: August 5, 2021

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship between cash and tax evasion by studying the effects of two measures to fight evasion: accessing taxpayers’ banking data to check the consistency with reported income and discouraging the use of cash with thresholds on payments. We show that variation in cash holdings triggered by these policies can be substantial, about 1.5% of the GDP. Accessing taxpayers’ banking data generates a conversion to the highest denomination banknotes, the most efficient for storing (and hiding) value. Sanctions on payments above a certain threshold are effective in decreasing cash inventory. Exploiting dynamic spatial heterogeneity in tax evasion and cash demand, we find that access to banking data has a higher effect in regions more inclined to evade taxes. No substantial difference is found for the effect of cash thresholds. We rationalize such evidences using a simple model of tax evasion and payment choice, which casts doubts on the effectiveness of such policies.

Keywords: cash demand, payment systems, tax evasion and avoidance, fiscal policy, monetary economics, financial stability, deposits

JEL Classification: E41, E42, E62, E65, E71, H26, O17.

Suggested Citation:

Rainone, Edoardo, Tax Evasion Policies and the Demand for Cash (August 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3899781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Acquisti , T Curtis , W Liad
The Economics of Privacy
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 442 - 492 Posted: 2016
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Institutional Uncertainty and Taxpayer Compliance
The American Economic Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 1018 - 1026 Posted: 1992
A Antón , F Hernández-Trillo , D Ventosa-Santaulària
(In) Effective tax enforcement and demand for cash
Journal of Macroeconomics Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,316
RANK
245,493
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies