Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolving ‘Thunder’: The Challenges Around Imposing the Digital Tax in Developing African Countries

Latif, L., The Evolving ‘Thunder’: The Challenges Around Imposing the Digital Tax in Developing African Countries [2020] International Journal of Digital Technology and Economy, Vol 4, No. 1

17 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021

Lyla Latif

University of Nairobi

Date Written: April 3, 20

Abstract

This paper addresses the challenges of taxing the digital economy. It promotes digital taxation to reign in the digital economy as part of a state’s taxable base and economic structure. It supports the redefinition of the tax rules governing traditional businesses to include the taxable features of the digital economy. The paper advocates for unilateral tax measures to enable developing African states capture the digitally enabled movement of money. The paper’s methodology is built around the doctrinal method alongside the process of deductive reasoning. Specific countries and their approach to taxing the digital economy is highlighted with the intention of comparing their fiscal regimes approach to unilateral tax measures targeting the digital economy. The literature addressed in the paper focuses on recent international and government responses in highlighting the problem with digital taxation and identifying the key areas requiring policy recommendations, which the paper then offers to provide. Although several academic works and the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) discussion papers have addressed the challenges of taxing the digital economy, there has been little focus on describing the sort of policy recommendations that could effectively guide developing African countries to rely on in enacting their own laws to target the taxation of cross-border digital corporations. This paper offers some of these policy recommendations.

Keywords: Africa, data, digital tax, value creation, OECD, BEPS

Suggested Citation:

Latif, Lyla, The Evolving ‘Thunder’: The Challenges Around Imposing the Digital Tax in Developing African Countries (April 3, 20). Latif, L., The Evolving ‘Thunder’: The Challenges Around Imposing the Digital Tax in Developing African Countries [2020] International Journal of Digital Technology and Economy, Vol 4, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3901962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Aslam , Shah
Tec(h)tonic Shifts: Taxing the 'Digital Economy Posted: 2020
Aslam , Shah
Taxation and the Peer-to-Peer Economy Posted: 2017
Crossref
Ataf
Suggested Approach to Drafting Digital Services Tax Legislation. ATAF's International Taxation and Technical Assistance Publication Posted: 2020
Ataf
The tax challenges arising in Africa from the digitalisation of the economy. ATAF Technical Note Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
379,264
4 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies