Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Foreign Cash Holdings of U.S. Multinational Corporations

Accounting & Taxation, V. 13 (1) P. 15-30

16 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021

Herman Manakyan

Salisbury University

Ani Manakyan Mathers

Salisbury University - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

U.S. Multinational Corporations (MNCs) generate significant amounts of income in foreign countries
hrough their international affiliates and subsidiaries. Prior to 2018, this income was subject to U.S. taxation only when repatriated to the U.S., creating an incentive for those firms to retain these earnings in their foreign subsidiaries and leading to the accumulation of large amounts of cash held by U.S. corporations outside of the U.S. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which was signed into law by President Trump on December 22, 2017, changed the corporate taxation of U.S. MNCs to a territorial system and created an immediate tax liability for U.S. MNCs’ “deemed repatriation” of their past foreign earnings. A primary objective of the change in the corporate tax structure was to encourage repatriation of accumulated foreign cash, as well as to eliminate the incentives to accumulate cash in foreign jurisdictions. This study examines the impact of the tax law changes on cash transactions and cash holdings of U.S. MNCs. Our results indicate a major policy goal of TCJA was largely accomplished, resulting in U.S. MNCs repatriating significant amounts of accumulated foreign cash, as well as reducing the future retention of earnings in foreign jurisdictions.

Keywords: Multinational Corporations, Tax Cut and Jobs Act, Foreign Cash, Trapped Cash

JEL Classification: G14, G38, H25

Suggested Citation:

Manakyan, Herman and Mathers, Ani Manakyan, Impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Foreign Cash Holdings of U.S. Multinational Corporations (2021). Accounting & Taxation, V. 13 (1) P. 15-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies