Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Administration in Ghana: Perceived Implementation Challenges

Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 121-130

10 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2021

Salahudeen Saeed

University of Professional Studies

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

In recent times, the focus of tax research has shifted from income tax compliance to Value Added Tax compliance. Meanwhile, the legislature on some occasions subject persons to what it calls income tax by reference to sums which do not represent income in any accounting or economic sense, or even in respect of sums which the person concerned has not received. This makes income tax administration challenging than in the case of value Added Tas This paper therefore seeks to gain an understanding of similarities and differences in the overall quantitative assessment and qualitative content of personal income tax and corporate income tax, from the perspectives of income taxpayers. For this purpose, the author examined a total of 259 Ghanaian income taxpayers; 174 personal income taxpayers and 85 corporate income taxpayers. Moreover, the author measured knowledge, attitudes and emotional reactions of personal income taxpayers and corporate income taxpayers towards income taxation. The results indicated that overall, income tax was negatively evaluated by both taxpayers. However, corporate income taxpayers occasioned a larger number of negative attitudes towards income tax, had more knowledge on income tax obligations, and conveyed more negative emotions than personal income taxpayers. The paper argues that findings from personal income tax research cannot be directly adapted to the context of corporate income tax.

Keywords: Income Tax, Personal Income Tax, Corporate Income, Ghana

JEL Classification: H21, H30

Suggested Citation:

Saeed, Salahudeen, Income Tax Administration in Ghana: Perceived Implementation Challenges (2021). Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 121-130, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
D Armah-Attoh , M
Tax Administration in Ghana: Perceived Institutional Challenges
Afrobarometer. Briefing Paper , issue 124 Posted: 2013
2010 Population and Housing Census Report
Ghana Statistical Service Posted: 2014
Act 896 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
RANK
106,376
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies