Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policy for Stablecoins and DAOs: A Peek Into the Future

Tax Notes International, July 19, 2021, p. 311

13 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2021 Last revised: 18 Aug 2021

Noopur Trivedi

Independent

Jitesh Golani

Independent

Date Written: July 19, 2021

Abstract

Blockchain technology, perhaps the most revolutionary invention of the 21st century, was popularized by introducing the world's first cryptocurrency 'Bitcoin.' However, despite many purported advantages offered by cryptocurrencies, they eluded mass adoption due to their extreme volatility. This flaw led to the ideation of an alternate cryptocurrency, 'stablecoin' which have seen their popularity surge almost 10x within a year. Further, the world has also witnessed the evolution of new business structures in decentralized autonomous organizations ('DAOs') where ownership and management intermingle with the help of smart contracts driven blockchain technology.

The profoundness of these new-age concepts could see them become the inherent elements of the global economy soon. This development would also necessitate devising new tax policies to cater to the crypto and blockchain-driven world. So far, not much has been discussed or debated around the income-tax implications for these concepts. With this background, the authors have deep-dived into the concept of stablecoins, their mechanics and explored the possible income tax implications throughout the lifecycle of different stablecoins. The authors have also discussed the concept of DAO along with a real-world case study, examine conceivable income tax offshoots that could arise due to DAO's unique nature, and sign-off with a suggestion on the probable solution.


Keywords: Taxation of Stablecoins and Decentralized Autonomous Organizations, Taxation of DAOs, Emerging Tax Policies, Taxing virtual currencies, DeFi, MakerDAO, Dai

JEL Classification: F3, F39, G28, H2, H20, H21, H24, H25, K20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Trivedi, Noopur and Golani, Jitesh, Tax Policy for Stablecoins and DAOs: A Peek Into the Future (July 19, 2021). Tax Notes International, July 19, 2021, p. 311, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3905990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
180,834
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies