Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Risk Profiling in Tax Audit Case Selection Rewarded? An Analysis of Corporate Tax Avoidance

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 60

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-07

58 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021 Last revised: 7 Dec 2022

Eva Eberhartinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Reyhaneh Safaei

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Yuchen Wu

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU); TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the relation between tax audit case selection based on risk profiling and corporate tax avoidance. We exploit the International Survey on Revenue Administration (ISORA) data on risk profiling in tax administrations from 2014 to 2017 to investigate whether the implementation of risk profiling has an incremental effect on firms’ tax avoidance. Controlling for tax enforcement, firm-specific, and country-specific factors, our results suggest that the use of risk profiling is associated with lower tax avoidance. Risk profiling seems to be an effective tool to curb tax avoidance across firms of all sizes, but the effect is more pronounced for large firms. However, risk profiling seems only effective in countries where risk profiling experts support the tax administration, and where tax administrations employ a larger number of tax auditors. Additional tests with country-level data on tax administration performance imply that risk profiling improves tax administrations’ performance. Overall, our findings point towards risk profiling as an audit case selection tool, appropriately staffed, incrementally attenuates firms’ tax avoidance and increases tax revenues. Experts for a thorough design and execution of risk profiling and sufficient staffing of the subsequent audits of high-risk taxpayers are necessary.

Keywords: tax audits, tax avoidance, tax compliance, tax enforcement, tax risk

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eberhartinger, Eva and Safaei, Reyhaneh and Sureth-Sloane, Caren and Wu, Yuchen, Is Risk Profiling in Tax Audit Case Selection Rewarded? An Analysis of Corporate Tax Avoidance (December 1, 2021). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 60, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits
The Review of Economics and Statistics , p. 1 - 45 Posted: 2021
A Alexander , A De Vito , M Jacob
Corporate tax reforms and tax-motivated profit shifting: evidence from the EU
Accounting and Business Research , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 309 - 341 Posted: 2020
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax morale and tax compliance from the firm's perspective
Kyklos , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
776
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,007
RANK
74,066
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies