Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and State Ownership – the Case of Sweden

Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Axel Hilling

Lund University

Frederik Lundtofte

Aalborg University Business School

Niklas Sandell

Lund University School of Economics and Management

Amanda Sonnerfeldt

Department of Business Law, Lund University

Anders Vilhelmsson

Lund University - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 27, 2021

Abstract

We propose a simple theoretical model for how a company with both private and state shareholders decides on its optimal tax policy. The model predicts that even in the absence of state shareholding, a company will not always pick a tax policy that minimizes taxes. Conversely, majority state ownership will generally not result in zero tax avoidance. Using panel regressions on the entire population of state-owned as well as publicly listed Swedish companies from 2000-2019, we find that a one standard deviation increase in state ownership increases corporate tax payments by around 14%.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Ownership structure, State ownership

JEL Classification: H26, G32

Suggested Citation:

Hilling, Axel and Lundtofte, Frederik and Sandell, Niklas and Sonnerfeldt, Amanda and Vilhelmsson, Anders, Tax Avoidance and State Ownership – the Case of Sweden (August 27, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3912423
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies