Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Relations of Large Australian Companies

Alfred Tran, Wanmeng Xu, 2020. Book-tax relations of large Australian companies. Australian Tax Forum, Volume 35, Number 1, 108-132.

25 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Wanmeng Xu

Australian National University (ANU) - School of Accounting & Business Information Systems

Date Written: August 29, 2021

Abstract

Using the data from the corporate tax transparency reports of entity tax information released by the Australian Taxation Office for the three income years 2013-14 to 2015-16, this study investigates the relations between (a) ‘taxable income’ in corporate tax return and ‘profit before tax’ in financial report and (b) ‘tax payable’ in corporate tax return and ‘tax expense’ and ‘current tax expense’ in financial report, as well as other variables that may explain these book-tax relations. This study finds that on average a 1% increase in profit before tax from continuing operations is associated with 0.66% increase in taxable income. On average a 1% increase in tax expense in income statement is associated with 0.71% increase in tax payable in tax return, and a 1% increase in current tax expense is associated with 0.95% increase in tax payable in tax return. Profits from discontinued operations, profits attributable to non-controlling (or minority) interests in the corporate group, the extent of foreign operations and the tax losses carried forward indicator also explain these book-tax relations.

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Alfred and Xu, Wanmeng, Book-Tax Relations of Large Australian Companies (August 29, 2021). Alfred Tran, Wanmeng Xu, 2020. Book-tax relations of large Australian companies. Australian Tax Forum, Volume 35, Number 1, 108-132., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3913464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies