Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Capital Income and Wealth Taxes

Pepperdine Law Review, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021

Ari Glogower

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law

Date Written: January 11, 2021

Abstract

As part of the Pepperdine Law Review Symposium The Impact of the 2017 Tax Act on Income and Wealth Inequality: Lessons for 2020 and Beyond, this Essay compares two reform directions to rebuild the progressive tax system: an improved capital income tax—which would eliminate the benefit from deferring gains until a sale—or a wealth tax.

The Essay first introduces the concept of a “rate-equivalent” wealth or capital income tax as a way to assess reform alternatives consistently and to identify the assumptions as to how the reforms would be structured. For any chosen capital income tax (or wealth tax) reform, the rate-equivalent wealth tax (or capital income tax) is the tax yielding the same tax liability for a taxpayer earning a specified investment return rate. The Essay then illustrates how this concept can help illuminate the assumptions behind comparisons of wealth tax and capital income tax reforms in the literature. Some views in the literature suggest that policymakers should favor an improved capital income tax because the two reforms can have comparable economic effects, while a capital income tax is more desirable in other respects.

The Essay surveys the literature evaluating three aspects of these reforms—their economic effects, administrability and avoidance opportunities, and constitutionality—and offers additional perspective on how in each area the distinctions between the two reforms are often narrower than they are sometimes assumed to be in the literature. In many cases the analysis of these reforms will also depend on the particular manner in which each reform is structured or the baseline against which the reform is measured. For this reason, policymakers should not reach categorical conclusions that one reform direction is intrinsically more desirable than the other.

The Essay concludes by considering one respect in which an improved capital income tax or a wealth tax can unambiguously differ: as different measures for comparing taxpayers in a progressive tax system. This distinction, however, will depend on the normative choice as to how inequality should be measured and mitigated by the tax system. For example, the choice between a capital income tax and a wealth tax could have different consequences, depending upon whether one assumes that the progressive tax system should mitigate differences in utility, income, wealth, or a combination thereof.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Tax Reform, Progressive Taxation, Wealth, Capital Income

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Glogower, Ari, Comparing Capital Income and Wealth Taxes (January 11, 2021). Pepperdine Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Erik M Jensen
Taxation and the Constitution: How to Read the Direct Tax Clauses
J L Pol
, volume 687 Posted: 1999
See Hemel & Kysar, supra note 111 , volume 127
Brief for United States , volume 171 , p. 378 - 379 Posted: 1796
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
641
RANK
552,835
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies