Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors' Influence on Clients' Estimated Tax Reserves

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3920001

61 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 10, 2023

Abstract

Accounting estimates are susceptible to managerial errors and bias, thereby generating audit risk. Quantifying and understanding the determinants and consequences of auditors’ influence on clients’ accounting estimates is therefore important. Using a novel econometric technique, we estimate annual measures of auditors’ influence on clients’ estimated tax reserves – a complex and subjective account pervasive across industries. We find that influence varies across audit offices and within audit offices over time. Influence is smaller in busier audit offices, offices in geographic areas with greater mutual trust, and offices where clients draw employees from a higher-quality workforce, but it is larger in offices with growth in tax non-audit services and more task-specific expertise in auditing tax reserves. We find greater auditor influence is associated with more relevant tax reserves, fewer SEC comment letters related to tax reserves, and fewer tax-related restatements. We also find evidence consistent with auditors “pushing back” when managers exert influence to decrease tax reserves below the expected level based on economic determinants. Our finding that greater auditor influence is beneficial to clients informs auditors, audit committees, regulators, and financial statement users.

Keywords: auditor influence, accounting estimates, tax reserves

JEL Classification: M40,M42

Suggested Citation:

Koester, Allison and Stomberg, Bridget and Williams, Brian and Xia, Junwei, Auditors' Influence on Clients' Estimated Tax Reserves (January 10, 2023). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3920001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3920001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3920001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
J M Abowd , R H Creecy , F Kramarz
Computing person and firm effects using linked longitudinal employer-employee data. Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics Technical Papers 2002-06 Posted: 2002
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High wage workers and high wage firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
A Acito , J Burks , W Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
187,977
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies