Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negative Interest Rates and Corporate Tax Behavior in Banks

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-09

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 63

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3921343

69 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2021 Last revised: 14 Sep 2021

Alexander Edwards

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Michael Marin

University of Toronto at Mississauga - Department of Management

Yuchen Wu

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU); TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the impact of negative interest rate (NIR) regimes on corporate tax behavior. We argue that NIRs act as a de-facto tax levied by central banks and investigate how this ‘tax’ affects banks’ corporate tax planning. Using a sample of domestic banks in OECD countries and a difference-in-difference research design, we find that banks affected by negative interest rate policies exhibit an increase in tax planning following the adoption of NIR, compared to unaffected banks. We document that the introduction of NIRs is associated with a 2.3 to 2.6 percentage point decrease in GAAP ETR and that the effects of NIRs are more pronounced in banks with a lower distance to default or lower reserves, and in countries with lower levels of tax enforcement or lower levels of trust in the government. Collectively, our results suggest that NIRs lead banks to increase tax planning as a funding source.

Keywords: Tax planning, negative interest rates, financial institutions

JEL Classification: H26, E58, M40, G18

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Alexander S. and Marin, Michael and Wu, Yuchen, Negative Interest Rates and Corporate Tax Behavior in Banks (August 1, 2021). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2021-09, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 63, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 3921343, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3921343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3921343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
308,936
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies