Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Homeownership Welfare State: An International Long-Term Perspective on the Tax Treatment of Homeowners

DIW Berlin Discussion Paper No. 1972

68 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2021

Konstantin A. Kholodilin

German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin)

Sebastian Kohl

JFK Institute, Sociology; Max Planck Society for the Advancement of the Sciences - Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies

Artem Korzhenevych

Kiel Institute for the World Economy; University of Kiel

Linus Pfeiffer

German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin), Students

Date Written: September 2021

Abstract

Welfare is traditionally understood through social security decommodifying labor markets or social investment policies. In the domain of housing, however, welfare for homeowners is largely hidden in the tax codes’ fiscal exemptions. Based on a content analysis of legislation, this paper introduces a novel yearly database of 37 countries between 1910 and 2020 to uncover the “hidden welfare state” of taxes on imputed rent, deductibility of mortgage payments, housing capital gains tax and VAT on newly built dwellings. Summary indices of homeownership attractiveness and neutrality of the tax code show that fiscal homeownership policies have been in decline until the 1980s and risen ever since. They are in place where finance is liberally and labor restrictively regulated. Contrary to the classical welfare state, they are not associated with an economic logic of industrialism or left-wing governments, but a rent-regulation alternative of Common-Law jurisdictions and smaller countries. As welfare for property owners, the logic of fiscal homeownership welfare diverges from the classical welfare for the laboring classes.

Keywords: Homeownership taxation attractiveness, tenure neutrality, leximetrics, international longitudinal data

JEL Classification: C43,H24,K25,R38

Suggested Citation:

Kholodilin, Konstantin A. and Kohl, Sebastian and Korzhenevych, Artem and Pfeiffer, Linus, The Hidden Homeownership Welfare State: An International Long-Term Perspective on the Tax Treatment of Homeowners (September 2021). DIW Berlin Discussion Paper No. 1972, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3924791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3924791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Sverige -kommunal allmännytta och korporativa särintressen
Varför så olika? Nordisk bostadspolitik i jämförande historiskt ljus , p. 101 - 158 Posted: 2006
P Beramendi , D Rueda
Social democracy constrained: Indirect taxation in industrialized democracies
British Journal of Political Science , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 619 - 641 Posted: 2007
B Bises , A Scialà
The taxation of owner-occupied house in Italy: 1974-2014
Istituto di Economia e Finanza Posted: 2014
T Blackwell , S Kohl
Historicizing housing typologies: beyond welfare state regimes and varieties of residential capitalism
Housing Studies , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 298 - 318 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Konstantin Arkadievich Kholodilin , Sebastian Kohl , Florian Müller
The Rise and Fall of Social Housing? Housing Decommodification in Long-run Comparison
Journal of Social Policy , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
947
RANK
511,635
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies