Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Workplace Transformation and Its Tax Compliance Implications

40 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2021

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Date Written: September 17, 2021

Abstract

Due to technological advances and the COVID-19 pandemic, taxpayers are increasingly utilizing their homes as a focal point from which to conduct their business affairs. On the one hand, the nation should applaud this workplace transformation insofar as it may enhance job performance and efficiency, reduce product cost and overhead, and improve work–life balance. On the other hand, this transformation process may open the door to rampant tax abuse as taxpayers alone or in collusion with their employers seek to transform home usage into a tax shelter refuge.

This analysis delves directly into the income tax compliance concerns that the workplace transformation engenders. It does so by exposing the nature of the problem, its prevalence, what it might cost the nation annually in terms of lost revenue, and why current safeguards are failing to achieve their sought-after objectives.

The good news is that if Congress proactively takes immediate remedial measures to address this nascent problem, such actions could help foster taxpayer compliance, defend the income tax base, and halt the depletion of the nation’s revenue coffers. However, if Congress dallies and is derelict in fulfilling its oversight duties, this problem is poised to go from bad to worse.


Keywords: Tax Compliance

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay, Workplace Transformation and Its Tax Compliance Implications (September 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3925552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3925552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
See Derek Thompson
As a result of the pandemic], tens of millions of American workersmostly in white-collar industries such as tech, finance, and media-were thrust into a sudden, chaotic experiment in working from home
Remote Work Isn't Just for White-Collar Jobs Anymore Posted: 2020-08-06
E G See , Richard Eisenberg
One effect of the coronavirus pandemic has been a huge increase in the number of Americans working from home
FORBES Posted: 2020-04-10
Drew Desilver
Before the Coronavirus
Telework Was an Optional Benefit, Mostly for the Affluent Few Posted: 2020-03-20
Gad Levanon , Frank Steemers
percent of all white-collar jobs added to the economy were filled by workers primarily working from home. And that number is conservative because it excludes those who worked part-time, self-employed workers and workers who telecommuted only part of the workweek , volume 16 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
RANK
511,635
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies