Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Re-examination of Firm Size and Taxes

53 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Brent Glover

Carnegie Mellon University - David A. Tepper School of Business

Oliver Levine

University of Wisconsin - Madison - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 27, 2024

Abstract

We document that larger firms pay substantially lower cash effective tax rates (cash ETRs) over the long run than smaller firms. Over a ten-year period, firms in the largest decile pay 10.4 p.p. (25 percent) lower cash taxes than those in the smallest decile, while this gap balloons to 14.4 p.p. (35 percent) for the largest 1 percent of firms. This pattern is robust to various specifications but vanishes when cash ETRs are measured annually. The relation between firm size and taxes over the long run cannot be explained by foreign operations, depreciation, R&D spending, or stock compensation, characteristics commonly associated with aggressive tax practices. Meanwhile, the observed tax inequality is strongly associated with the incidence of losses. Our findings stand in contrast to the two dominant theories ascribing the association between firm size and taxes to political activities, instead suggesting that the asymmetric tax treatment of profits and losses is first order in understanding the significant tax differentials we document. A cross-country analysis supports these findings.

Keywords: Firm size, taxes

JEL Classification: H25, H26, L25

Suggested Citation:

Gaertner, Fabio B. and Glover, Brent and Levine, Oliver, A Re-examination of Firm Size and Taxes (March 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3928145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3928145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,709
RANK
118,334
4 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies