Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subsidy and Taxation in All-Pay Auctions Under Incomplete Information

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16504

28 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2021

Yizhaq Minchuk

Shamoon College of Engineering

Aner Sela

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: September 2021

Abstract

We study all-pay auctions under incomplete information with n contestants who have non-linear cost functions. The designer may award two kinds of subsidy (taxation): one that decreases (increases) each contestant's marginal cost of effort and another that increases (decreases) each contestant's value of winning. The designer's expected payoff is the contestants' expected total effort minus the cost of subsidy or, alternatively, plus the tax payment. We show that when the resource of subsidy (the marginal taxation rate) is relatively small and the cost function is concave (convex), the designer's expected payoff in all-pay auctions with both kinds of subsidy (taxation) is higher than in the same contest without any subsidy (taxation). We then compare both kinds of subsidy and demonstrate that if the resource of subsidy is relatively small and the cost functions are concave (convex), the cost subsidy is better than prize subsidy for the designer who wishes to maximize his expected payoff.

Keywords: all-pay auctions, Subsidy, taxation

JEL Classification: C72, D44, H25

Suggested Citation:

Minchuk, Yizhaq and Sela, Aner, Subsidy and Taxation in All-Pay Auctions Under Incomplete Information (September 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16504, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3928801
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
41 References
M Bisceglia
Optimal taxation in a common resource oligopoly game
Journal of Economics , volume 129 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2020
J I Bulow , P D Klemperer
Auctions vs. negotiations
American Economic Review , volume 86 , p. 180 - 194 Posted: 1996
T N Casson , W A Masters , R M Sheremeta
Entry into winner-take-all and proportional-prize contests: An experimental study
Journal of Public Economics , volume 94 , p. 604 - 611 Posted: 2010
J Carpenter , H P Matthewsa , B Tabba
Progressive taxation in a tournament economy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 143 , p. 64 - 72 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies