Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Employed Tax Experts and Audit Quality

52 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021 Last revised: 10 Apr 2025

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Miguel Minutti-Meza

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Saad Siddiqui

University of Texas at Austin

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 6, 2023

Abstract

We use PCAOB data to examine the involvement of auditor-employed tax experts in audit engagements. We document that tax expert involvement—measured using hours charged to an engagement—is driven by tax complexity and it averages five percent of the audit hours. Next, after controlling for tax complexity, we find that higher tax expert involvement is positively associated with detecting tax-related internal control material weaknesses and the incidence of subsequent restatements. However, the association between tax expert involvement and audit quality hinges on effective coordination between the audit team and experts, and we show that involving experts earlier in the audit timeline reduces the likelihood of tax-related material weaknesses and restatements. Collectively, our findings suggest that higher tax expert involvement is an appropriate but insufficient response on its own to address tax complexity. More broadly, our findings shed light on ongoing concerns regarding ineffective use of experts in audit engagements. 

Keywords: tax experts, audit of tax accounts, auditors’ use of specialists, audit quality, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M. and Minutti-Meza, Miguel and Siddiqui, Saad and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Auditor-Employed Tax Experts and Audit Quality (September 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
RANK
143,458
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies