Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between Payroll and Income Tax Avoidance

61 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2021

Michael Marin

University of Toronto at Mississauga - Department of Management

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Payroll taxes, such as contributions mandated through the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), represent a considerable expense for businesses and are a large source of government revenue. Considering that employers pay approximately 50% of FICA, payroll taxes have a material impact on firm profitability. Despite the large cost, little is known about the determinants of payroll tax avoidance. By misclassifying employees as independent contractors, a firm can avoid their portion of FICA contributions and a variety of other employee related costs. This paper utilizes publicly available compliance action data from the Wage and Hour Division (i.e., WHD) of the United States Department of Labor (i.e., DOL) to identify employee misclassification and to empirically identify whether firms that avoid income taxes also avoid payroll taxes. This paper documents two main results. First, income tax avoidance, proxied by CashETR, is negatively related to the likelihood of a successful discovery of a Fair Labor Standards Act (i.e., FLSA) violation during a Wage and Hour Division audit. Second, firms reduce their income tax avoidance following the discovery of FLSA violations.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Employee Classification, Non-Income Taxes

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Marin, Michael, The Relation between Payroll and Income Tax Avoidance (September 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3933173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3933173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Christopher S Armstrong , L Jennifer , David F Blouin , Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Jacques Bughin , James Manyika , Susan Lund , Kelsey Robinson
Featured Insights/Employment and Growth/Independent work Choice necessity and the gig economy/Independent-Work-Choice-necessity-and-the
McKinsey Global Institute Posted: 2016-01
Françoise Carré
(In)Dependent Contractor Misclassification
Economic Policy Institute Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
538,270
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies