Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Gap's Many Shades of Gray

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 938

38 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2021 Last revised: 24 Oct 2024

Daniel J. Hemel

New York University School of Law

Janet Holtzblatt

Tax Policy Center

Steve Rosenthal

Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

The “tax gap”—the difference between the amount of “true tax” and the amount of tax actually paid—has garnered widespread attention in recent months. Much of the commentary on the subject equates the tax gap with “tax evasion,” a term broadly understood to connote intentional (and potentially criminal) underreporting. This paper cautions against conflating the tax gap with tax evasion. The tax gap includes substantial gray areas where the law is ambiguous and the IRS’s determination of “true tax” is debatable. On top of that, the IRS’s methodology for measuring the tax gap includes upward adjustments that are recommended by front-line examiners but reversed on administrative appeal or judicial review. Moreover, a substantial portion of the estimated tax gap is derived from a statistical technique called “detection controlled estimation” that potentially magnifies the impact of later-reversed recommendations on the ultimate tax gap measure. Weighing in the opposite direction, the IRS’s approach to measuring the tax gap excludes some amounts that clearly constitute tax evasion (most significantly, underreporting of tax on illegal-source income).

Understanding the tax gap’s shades of gray can inform discussions of tax law and policy. We explain how proposals to use the tax gap as a performance target may produce perverse incentives for the IRS. We further explain how additional IRS funding—though necessary to improve the agency’s ability to enforce the tax laws—may have counterintuitive effects on the estimates of the tax gap. We also illustrate—using examples from the taxation of passthrough entities—how legislative reforms can reduce the size and scope of legal gray areas that contribute to the tax gap. Our analysis highlights the importance of increased IRS funding levels and substantive tax law changes as complementary strategies for improving tax compliance.

Keywords: tax gap, tax evasion, tax compliance, tax administration

JEL Classification: K34, H26

Suggested Citation:

Hemel, Daniel J. and Holtzblatt, Janet and Rosenthal, Steve, The Tax Gap's Many Shades of Gray (September 30, 2021). University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 938, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3934044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
See Robert , W Wood
Lawyers must assume that the IRS will examine their clients' uncertain positions
Posted: 1823
58 The academic article that provides the intellectual foundation for the DCE method acknowledges this issue. See Jonathan S. Feinstein, An Econometric Analysis of Income Tax Evasion and Its Detection, 22 RAND
FIN 48 now is mostly codified at Financial Accounting Standards Board, Accounting Standards Codification , volume 14 , p. 740 - 750 Posted: 1991
A further concern regarding the DCE adjustment relates to the possibility that examiner-to-examiner differences might reflect noise in the data. It's possible that the examiners with the highest propensity to recommend adjustments were randomly assigned to less compliant taxpayers. The IRS addresses this in part by controlling for taxpayer and tax return characteristics when estimating the DCE equation
Erard & Feinstein
Analysts can use a variety of tools to evaluate the extent of overfitting. One approach is out-of-sample validation: the IRS could calculate DCE multipliers based on (for example) half of each examiner's audits and test to the reasonable-compensation standard for S corporation shareholders claiming the deduction
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
659
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,811
RANK
91,525
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Chicago Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies