Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on Robot Taxation: Literature Review and Technical Analysis

American University Business Law Review, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Date Written: July 9, 2021

Abstract

The literature on robot taxation has continued to expand since 2018 with numerous articles now referring to empirical evidence. The evidence presented in prior studies comprises abstract modeling and statistical pattern reviews with no statistically significant findings reported to date. One article is an advocacy piece by a tech lobbyist who has purchased priority Google results for the search “robot taxation”. In some cases, technical errors are sufficient to reverse the stated results. Examples of error in empirical analyses include (i) motivated reasoning such as the failure to model simpler or best explanations (ii) lack of causal analysis (iii) tax technical errors (iv) omission of citations to conflicting theory or results (v) errors in accounting methods (vi) enhanced degrees of freedom in modeling parameters, and (vii) reliance on economic theories not reflecting robots as a fourth factor of production. The empirical evidence indicates that capital investment, such as in robots, occurs largely in higher tax nations, and that robot density is positively associated with high corporate tax rates, such as in Germany, Japan, South Korea and the Nordic states, with little or no automation occurring in tax havens where the value of tax deductions for capital investment is zero.

Keywords: Robot Taxation

JEL Classification: m21

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret, Empirical Evidence on Robot Taxation: Literature Review and Technical Analysis (July 9, 2021). American University Business Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3939639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
333,158
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies