Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Taxpayers Attitude towards Income Tax: A Case of Bangladesh

Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Alam, M.S. (2021). An Examination of Taxpayers Attitude towards Income Tax: A Case of Bangladesh, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 95 – 110. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(3)

16 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

GATR Journals Submitter

Global Academy of Training and Research (GATR)

Md Shahbub Alam

Islamic University, Kushtia

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

Objective - Taxation is the government's primary source of revenue, but it is unable to raise this revenue from the general public. The major goals of this article are to determine the taxpayers' attitudes toward income tax in Bangladesh, as well as the factors influencing taxpayers' behavioral intentions regarding tax evasion and avoidance. Both qualitative and quantitative research methods were used in this study.

Methodology/Technique - The respondents' primary data was acquired by a standardized written questionnaire and a face-to-face viva. To complete the job, the study used purposeful random sampling, which resulted in the selection of 150 individuals from various occupations. After gathering data, it was examined using several statistical methods.

Findings - The study's findings reveal a significant negative relationship between taxpayer attitudes regarding tax evasion and tax compliance behavior, as well as the fact that taxpayer attitudes and conduct differ by occupation, resulting in diverse tax evasion and avoidance trends.

Novelty - This study will aid the government authority and the National Bureau of Revenue in monitoring taxpayer attitudes and improving tax collection by reducing taxpayers' negative attitudes toward taxes and getting more people to file tax returns.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Taxpayers; Attitude; Income tax; Bangladesh.

JEL Classification: H21; H24: H26.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, GATR Journals and Alam, Md Shahbub, An Examination of Taxpayers Attitude towards Income Tax: A Case of Bangladesh (September 30, 2021). Reference to this paper should be referred to as follows: Alam, M.S. (2021). An Examination of Taxpayers Attitude towards Income Tax: A Case of Bangladesh, Acc. Fin. Review, 6(2), 95 – 110. https://doi.org/10.35609/afr.2021.6.2(3), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,300
RANK
188,584
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies