Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Treatment from the Tax Authority, Tax Literacy, and Exchange and Vertical Equity Affect Tax Compliance: The Role of Fairness of the Tax Assessment Process Complemented by Demographics and Collectivist Culture

32 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2021 Last revised: 6 May 2023

Saher Afshan

University of Karachi, Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: October 12, 2021

Abstract

Prior research shows taxpayers’ perceptions of fairness lead to greater cooperation and compliance with tax authorities. Yet our understanding of tax fairness has been hampered by its general reliance upon models and measures of fairness developed by organizational fairness research, even though fairness is a perception subject to contextual influences. In this study, we extended our theoretical understanding of contextual influences on perceptions of fairness by investigating the extent to which dimensions of organizational fairness and comparison reference points apply in the tax context. For this, we proposed a theoretical framework modifying the Farrar et. al. (2020) model to incorporate demographics, collectivism, and tax literacy. We contend that the Even-handedness of the tax authority’s procedures, Adequacy of explanation from the tax authority, and Respectful treatment from the tax authority create the Fairness perception of the Tax Assessment Process. This along with Exchange equity, Vertical equity, Tax Literacy, increase Tax Compliance. We also contend that Age, Education, Income, and Collectivism moderate the effect of fairness and equity on compliance in a way higher of these factors would strengthen the effect of both equity and fairness on tax compliance. Empirical validity was established by conducting a survey using a close-ended questionnaire. Data was collected from 309 respondents and analyzed using confirmatory factor analysis and structured equation modeling. We found that adequacy of explanation from the tax authority, even-handedness of the tax authority’s procedures and respectful treatment from the tax authority all are positively and significantly affect the fairness of the tax assessment process. Tax literacy also seems to increase tax compliance. Results suggest that Taxpayers’ perception of the tax system is important because fairness of the tax system will instill compliant behavior among taxpayers. Understanding taxpayers’ motivation and developing tax policies and strategies that can influence compliance will bring more revenue and less administrative cost to the tax authority.

Keywords: Tax fairness, Tax compliance, Exchange equity, Vertical equity, Demographic, Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Afshan, Saher and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, How Treatment from the Tax Authority, Tax Literacy, and Exchange and Vertical Equity Affect Tax Compliance: The Role of Fairness of the Tax Assessment Process Complemented by Demographics and Collectivist Culture (October 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3941031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3941031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
754
RANK
481,321
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies