Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Distortion and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From China

Posted: 19 Oct 2021 Last revised: 22 Jun 2022

Renjie Zhao

Northwest University

Jiakai Zhang

New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology

Binbin Tian

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 19, 2021

Abstract

Excess input VATs cannot be refunded in China, which causes a heavy financial burden for firms. Using the China National Tax Survey Database (NTSD), this paper explores the relation between input VAT credit carryovers and corporate income tax avoidance behavior. We find that the ratio of input VAT credit carryovers (IVCCs) scaled to cash inflow is negatively associated with effective corporate income tax rates (ETRs). In addition, we find that the tax avoidance activities of firms can be carried out by increasing their costs deducted before tax to underreport their profits. Finally, to explore the causal effect of input VAT credit carryovers on corporate income tax avoidance, we investigated the impact of a recent VAT reform that allowed VAT refunds for excess input VAT credits in 18 industries in 2018 using the China Stock Market & Accounting Research Database (CSMAR). The results indicate that refunding excess input VAT credits could improve corporate tax compliance.

Keywords: Input VAT credit carryovers, Tax avoidance, Effective tax rate

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Renjie and Zhang, Jiakai and Tian, Binbin, VAT Distortion and Tax Avoidance: Evidence From China (October 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3945704
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies