Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Investors Value the Publication of Tax Information? Evidence From the European Public Country-By-Country Reporting

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-077

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 79

49 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 25 May 2023

Raphael Müller

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Stefan Weck

Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

We examine the capital market reaction to the announcement of the European Union (EU) to introduce a public tax country-by-country reporting (CbCR) regime. By employing an event study methodology, we find a significant cumulative average abnormal return (CAAR) of -0.699%, which translates into a monetary value drop of approximately EUR 65 billion. We conclude that investors evaluate reputational risks arising from public scrutiny and competitive disadvantages to outweigh potential benefits of an extended information environment or more sustainable corporate tax strategies. In cross-sectional tests, we find that the average investor reaction is more pronounced for firms with low effective book tax rates, indicating that reputational concerns play a significant role in the marginal investor's investment behavior. Furthermore, our cross-sectional results indicate that the market reaction is stronger for firms operating in industries with high growth in market participants, providing an initial indication for the role of the competitive environment as an additional channel. Our inferences are of particular importance in light of the current ongoing debates on similar disclosure rules (particularly in the United States; cf. "Disclosure of Tax Havens and Offshoring Act") as well as for sustainability standard setters.

Keywords: Tax transparency, Tax disclosure, Tax avoidance, Event study, Country-by-country reporting

JEL Classification: F23, G14, G38, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Raphael and Spengel, Christoph and Weck, Stefan, How Do Investors Value the Publication of Tax Information? Evidence From the European Public Country-By-Country Reporting (2021). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-077, TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3949860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Chelsea Austin , Ryan J Rae; Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Katarzyna Bilicka , Elisa ; Anna; Casi , Carol ; Seregni , Barbara Stage
Qualitative Information Disclosure: Is Mandating Additional Tax Information Disclosure Always Useful? ZEW -Leibniz-Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschfatsforschung. Mannheim (ZEW -Centre for European Economic Posted: 2021
Kay ; Blaufus , Axel ; Möhlmann , Schwäbe , N Alexander
Stock price reactions to news about corporate tax avoidance and evasion
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 72 , p. 278 - 292 Posted: 2019
Severin ; Borenstein , James ; Bushnell , Christopher R Knittel
Market Power in Electricity Markets: Beyond Concentration Measures
The Energy Journal , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 65 - 88 Posted: 1999
Load more
2 Citations
Paul Demeré
Is tax return information useful to equity investors?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1413 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Giulia Aliprandi , Gerrit von Zedlitz
Benchmarking Country-by-Country Reports
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 122 · 41 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2023 · Downloads: 269
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
813
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,349
RANK
69,547
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies