Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Monetary Sanctions as Tax Enforcement Tools: Evaluating California’s Top 500 Program

Journal of Policy Analysis & Management

80 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2021 Last revised: 31 Jan 2024

Chad Angaretis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Brian D. Galle

Georgetown University Law Center

Paul R. Organ

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Tax Analysis (OTA); University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Allen C. Prohofsky

California Franchise Tax Board

Date Written: January 30, 2024

Abstract

Many U.S. states and countries around the world use non-monetary sanctions to encourage tax compliance, including public disclosure, license suspension, and withholding of other government-provided benefits or privileges. Little is known about the effectiveness of these programs. Using administrative tax microdata from California’s “Top 500” program, we study whether notices warning of the imminent publication of a taxpayer’s personal information and potential license suspension affect payment and other compliance outcomes, as well as whether these notices affect subsequent reported earnings. Exploiting variation over time in the cutoff balance for program eligibility we find evidence of strong positive compliance responses to the program, with no evidence of an impact on subsequent reported earnings. We also develop estimates of the deadweight loss caused by publication of non-compliers, and conclude that the program generates positive net social welfare. Together, these results suggest that non-monetary sanctions can be efficient tax enforcement tools, at least among the relatively high-income population we study.

Keywords: tax enforcement, compliance, shaming, disclosure, tax collection, nonmonetary sanctions, tax avoidance, state income taxation

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H31, H71

Suggested Citation:

Angaretis, Chad and Galle, Brian D. and Organ, Paul and Prohofsky, Allen C., Non-Monetary Sanctions as Tax Enforcement Tools: Evaluating California’s Top 500 Program (January 30, 2024). Journal of Policy Analysis & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
James Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: Lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
James Alm
What Motivates Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
James Alm , Kim M Bloomquist , Michael Mckee
When you know your neighbor pays taxes: Information, peer effects, and tax compliance
Fiscal Studies , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 613 Posted: 2017
James Alm , Michele Bernasconi , Susan Laury , Daniel Lee , Sally Wallace
Culture, compliance, and confidentiality: Taxpayer behavior in the United States and Italy
Journal of Economics Behavior & Organization , volume 40 , p. 176 - 196 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
294,906
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies