Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Temporary VAT Cut as Unconventional Fiscal Policy *

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 21-23

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2021-128

99 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2021 Last revised: 17 Dec 2022

Rüdiger Bachmann

University of Notre Dame

Benjamin Born

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Olga Goldfayn-Frank

Deutsche Bundesbank; Goethe University Frankfurt

Georgi Kocharkov

Deutsche Bundesbank; Goethe University Frankfurt - House of Finance

Ralph Luetticke

University College London

Michael Weber

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

We exploit Germany's temporary three-percentage-point VAT cut in the second half of 2020 to study the spending response to unconventional fiscal policy. We use survey and scanner data on household consumption expenditures and their perceived pass-through of the tax change into prices and a HANK model to quantify the effects of this VAT policy. The survey and scanner data show that the temporary VAT reduction led to a relative increase in durable and, to a lesser extent, semi-durable spending for individuals with high perceived pass-through. According to the HANK model, the VAT policy increased total aggregate consumption spending by 4.3 percent on impact.

Keywords: unconventional fiscal policy, value added tax, household survey data, expectations, consumption, durables, HANK model JEL-Codes: D12

JEL Classification: D12, E20, E21, E62, E65, H31

Suggested Citation:

Bachmann, Rüdiger and Born, Benjamin and Goldfayn-Frank, Olga and Kocharkov, Georgi and Kocharkov, Georgi and Luetticke, Ralph and Weber, Michael, A Temporary VAT Cut as Unconventional Fiscal Policy * (August 22, 2024). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 21-23, University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2021-128, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Sumit Agarwal , Pulak Ghosh , Jian Zhang
Tax policy transmission and household expenditures Posted: 2022
Sumit Agarwal , Nathan Marwell , Leslie Mcgranahan
Consumption responses to temporary tax incentives: evidence from state sales tax holidays
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2017
Alice Albonico
The Global Multi-Country Model (GM): an estimated DSGE model for euro area countries
Directorate General Economic and Financial Affairs (DG ECFIN) , volume 102 Posted: 2019
Peter Andre , Carlo Pizzinelli , Christopher Roth , Johannes Wohlfart
Subjective models of the macroeconomy: evidence from experts and representative samples
Review of Economic Studies , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 2958 - 2991 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
RANK
255,505
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies