Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income tax competition with endogenous wages

18 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021

Shuichi Tsugawa

Ryukoku University

Date Written: November 3, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies the optimal nonlinear income tax schedule at symmetric equilibria at which two symmetric states (or tax authorities) compete to attract more taxpayers from the other state. It differs from the existing literature in the sense that taxpayers' wages are endogenously determined by the production technology. The optimal tax schedule embraces not only the migration effect, but also the trickle-down effect arising from the endogenous wage, and the former stimulates the latter. In contrast with previous works, the threat of emigration always influences the marginal tax rate for high-skilled workers because emigration terms are embedded in production and impact on productivity or unit wages.

Keywords: Nonlinear income taxation, Tax competition, Endogenous wage

JEL Classification: D31, H21, H73, H77

Suggested Citation:

Tsugawa, Shuichi, Income tax competition with endogenous wages (November 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3955516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3955516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
F Bierbrauer , C Brett , J A Weymark
Strategic nonlinear income tax competition with perfect labor mobility
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 82 , p. 292 - 311 Posted: 2013
P C Boyer , H Kempf
Regulatory arbitrage and the efficiency of banking regulation
Journal of Financial Intermediation Posted: 2017
P A Diamond
Optimal Income Taxation: An Example with a U-Shaped Pattern of Optimal Marginal Tax Rates
American Economic Review , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 95 Posted: 1998
T Gaube
Income Taxation, Endogenous Factor Prices and Production Efficiency
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 2 , p. 335 - 352 Posted: 2005
Load more
1 Citations
Eckhard Janeba , Karl Schulz
Nonlinear taxation and international mobility in general equilibrium
Journal of Public Economics , volume 218 , p. 104811 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
518
RANK
564,240
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies