Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Price of Power: How Managerial Taxes Affect Debt Contract Provisions

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 3959097

59 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2024

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Youngki Jang

University of Delaware

Nir Yehuda

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: October 25, 2023

Abstract

We study price and non-price provisions of debt contracts to gauge how creditors evaluate changes in senior executives’ personal income taxes (“managerial taxes”) of their borrowers. Because managers’ personal income taxes can exacerbate conflicts of interest with their firms’ capital providers (e.g., creditors and shareholders)—as well as those between them—they should influence the design of these contracts. We argue that an increase in personal taxes affects how managers evaluate risk-return trade-offs and encourages them to take more risk. Specifically, by enabling risk-sharing with the government, taxes reduce the disincentive of a risk-averse managers to pursue risky projects by reducing the disutility they associate with them. Our evidence demonstrates that loans issued following arguably exogenous increases in managerial taxes are costlier for borrowers and are more likely to include performance rather than capital covenants. Subsequent cross-sectional tests corroborate this inference and provide further insight by showing that the effect of managerial taxes on loan terms is more pronounced when managers have greater incentives to take risks, and when creditors are more likely to closely monitor managers’ risk-taking behavior. Collectively, these and other findings show how changes in managerial taxes—and, in turn, managers’ preferences for risk and return—influence the terms and structure of their firms’ debt contracts.

Keywords: Managerial Taxes; Personal Taxes; Debt Contracting

JEL Classification: M41, G32, H32

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Jang, Youngki and Yehuda, Nir, The Price of Power: How Managerial Taxes Affect Debt Contract Provisions (October 25, 2023). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 3959097, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3959097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3959097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
V V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
J. Financ. Intermediation , volume 16 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Rev. Econ. Stud , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Agrawal , D Matsa
Labor unemployment risk and corporate financing decisions
J. Financ. Econ , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 470 Posted: 2013
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
J. Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
RANK
122,537
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies