Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Collective Model of Labor Supply Useful for Tax Policy Analysis? A Simulation Exercise

IZA Discussion Paper No. 1451

38 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2005 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Nicolas Moreau

Université Laval - Département d'Économique; CIRPEE

Olivier Bargain

IZA Institute of Labor Economics; University College Dublin (UCD)

Abstract

The literature on household behavior contains hardly any empirical research on the within-household distributional effect of tax-benefit policies. We simulate this effect in the framework of a collective model of labor supply when shifting from a joint to an individual taxation system in France. We show that the net-of-tax relative earning potential of the wife is a significant determinant of intrahousehold negotiation but with very low elasticity. Consequently, the labor supply responses to the reform are entirely driven by the traditional substitution and income effects as in a unitary model. For some households only, the reform alters the intrahousehold distribution in a way that tends to change normative conclusions. A sensitivity analysis shows that the collective model would be required if the tax reform was both radical and of extended scope.

Keywords: household labor supply, intrahousehold allocation, collective model, tax reform

JEL Classification: C71, D11, D12, H31, J22

Suggested Citation:

Moreau, Nicolas and Bargain, Olivier and Bargain, Olivier, Is the Collective Model of Labor Supply Useful for Tax Policy Analysis? A Simulation Exercise. IZA Discussion Paper No. 1451, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=396040
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
P F Apps , R Rees
Taxation and the Household Production
Journal of Public Economics , volume 35 , p. 355 - 369 Posted: 1988
P F Apps , R Rees
Labour Supply, Household Production and Intra-family Welfare Distribution
Journal of Public Economics , volume 60 , p. 199 - 219 Posted: 1996
P F Apps , R Rees
Collective Labor Supply and Household Production"(Comments)
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 178 - 190 Posted: 1997
P F Apps , R Rees
Joint vs. individual taxation in models of household production
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 393 - 403 Posted: 1999
Load more
1 Citations
Julie L. Hotchkiss , Robert Elijah Moore , Fernando Rios‐Avila
Family Welfare and the Cost of Unemployment
FRB Atlanta Working Paper No. 2017-7 · 61 Pages · Posted: 2 Oct 2017 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
505,351
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Relational Contracts, Taxation and the Household

By Patricia F. Apps and Ray Rees

Collective Labour Supply: Heterogeneity and Nonparticipation

By Richard W. Blundell, Pierre-andre Chiappori, ...

Collective Labour Supply: Heterogeneity and Non-Participation

By Richard W. Blundell, Pierre-andre Chiappori, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies