Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mobility Responses to the Establishment of a Residential Tax Haven: Evidence from Switzerland

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16627

92 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2021 Last revised: 27 May 2022

Isabel Martinez

ETH Zürich

Date Written: October 2021

Abstract

I analyze mobility responses to a tax reform that established the Swiss canton of Obwalden as a tax haven in 2006. The reform, which included a regressive income tax schedule, was explicitly aimed at attracting the top 1%. Difference-in-Differences (DiD) estimations comparing Obwalden to all other cantons confirm that the reform successfully attracted high-income taxpayers: by 2016, the share of top earners in the canton had doubled, and average income per taxpayer was 16% higher relative to 2005. Based on individual tax return data, I estimate the mobility elasticity with a two-stage least squares (2SLS) approach, which isolates the identifying variation in the tax rate stemming from the 2006 reform only. I find a large elasticity of the stock of high-income taxpayers of 1.5â??2 with respect to the net-of- average-tax rate. The corresponding flow elasticity is 7.2. Despite these large behavioral responses, the reform did not increase revenue per capita in the canton. Finally, I find small positive effects on local employment. However, in-movers with high incomes were not more likely to also work in the canton, and I cannot rule out that employment effects were driven by the simultaneous reduction in corporate income taxes.

Keywords: local taxes, mobility, Personal income tax, regressive income tax, Tax Competition

JEL Classification: H24, H31, H71, H73, R23

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Isabel, Mobility Responses to the Establishment of a Residential Tax Haven: Evidence from Switzerland (October 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16627, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960209
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
64 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering? Posted: 2017
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
Sampling-Based versus Design-Based Uncertainty in Regression Analysis
Econometrica , volume 88 , issue 1 , p. 265 - 296 Posted: 2020
D R Agrawal , D Foremny
Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms
Review of Economics and Statistics Posted: 2019
D R Agrawal , D Foremny , C Martínez-Toledano
Paraísos Fiscales, Wealth Taxation, and Mobility Posted: 2020-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
4 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies