Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Complexity Faced by Multinational Corporations: A Comparative Study of Canada, the United States, and Other Selected OECD Countries

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2021, pp. 745-790

46 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Susann Sturm

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: November 2021

Abstract

This study examines the complexity of Canada's corporate income tax system from the perspective of multinational corporations and compares it with the complexity of the US system, also taking into account measures of complexity for 19 other member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The author finds that with regard to the Canadian tax code, the most complex laws are those on corporate reorganization, transfer pricing, and controlled foreign corporations, and with regard to the Canadian tax framework, the most complex areas are tax audits, tax-law enactment, and tax guidance. In comparison with other OECD countries, Canada is remarkably similar to the United States. Both countries have a medium level of overall complexity, and both have a more complex tax code but a less complex tax framework than other countries. However, a closer examination of the Canadian and US tax codes and tax frameworks reveals some significant differences in complexity levels, particularly in respect of certain tax laws.

Keywords: Tax, surveys, Canada, comparative studies, United States, OECD

Suggested Citation:

Sturm, Susann, Income Tax Complexity Faced by Multinational Corporations: A Comparative Study of Canada, the United States, and Other Selected OECD Countries (November 2021). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 69, No. 3, 2021, pp. 745-790, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3962529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
additional local and industry-specific taxes
8. general anti-avoidance, 9. group treatment, 10. interest (including withholding taxes on interest payments) and thin capitalization, 11. investment incentives, 12. loss offset, 13. royalties (including withholding taxes on royalty payments), 14. statutory corporate income tax rate, and 15. transfer pricing. To measure the level of complexity of each law, survey respondents were asked to assess the extent to which each of five complexity drivers contributed to the complexity of a law (using a five-point scale that ranged from "no extent" to "very great extent"). The five complexity drivers were (liquidation/winding up) of the ITA. Comprehensive reviews of these rules are
Vern Krishna
Halsbury's Laws of Canada: Income Tax (Corporate) Posted: 2008
K A Siobhan Monaghan , Raj Juneja , Paul Lamarre , Colin Campbell
Taxation of Corporate Reorganizations Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
876
RANK
434,536
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies