Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Whistleblowing on Tax Evaders Reduce Ingroup Cooperation?

41 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2021

Philipp Chapkovski

University of Duisburg-Essen - Institute of Political Science

Luca Corazzini

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Dipartimento di Economia

Valeria Maggian

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Dipartimento di Economia

Date Written: September 24, 2021

Abstract

Whistleblowing is a powerful and rather inexpensive instrument to contrast tax evasion. Despite the deterrent effects on tax evasion, whistleblowing can reduce trust and undermine agents’ attitude to cooperate with group members. Yet, no study has investigated the potential spillover effects of whistleblowing on ingroup cooperation. This paper reports results of a laboratory experiment in which subjects participate in two consecutive phases in unchanging groups: a tax evasion game, followed by a generalized gift exchange game. Two dimensions are manipulated in our experiment: the inclusion of a whistleblowing stage in which, after observing others’ declared incomes, subjects can signal other group members to the tax authority, and the provision of information about the content of the second phase before the tax evasion game is played. Our results show that whistleblowing is effective in both curbing tax evasion and improving the precision of tax auditing. Moreover, we detect no statistically significant spillover effects of whistleblowing on ingroup cooperation in the subsequent generalized gift exchange game, with this result being unaffected by the provision of information about the experimental task in the second phase. Finally, the provision of information does not significantly alter subjects’ (tax and whistleblowing) choices in the tax evasion game: thus, knowledge about perspective ingroup cooperation did not alter attitude towards whistleblowing.

Keywords: Tax evasion, whistleblowing, ingroup cooperation, spillover effects, laboratory experiment

JEL Classification: H26, C90, D02

Suggested Citation:

Chapkovski, Philipp and Corazzini, Luca and Maggian, Valeria, Does Whistleblowing on Tax Evaders Reduce Ingroup Cooperation? (September 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3970606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3970606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
James Alm
What Motivates Tax Compliance?
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
James Alm , Kim M Bloomquist , Michael Mckee
When You Know Your Neighbour Pays Taxes: Information, Peer Effects and Tax Compliance
Fiscal Studies , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 613 Posted: 2017
Eli Amir , Adi Lazar , Shai Levi
The Deterrent Effect of Whistleblowing on Tax Collections
European Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 939 - 954 Posted: 2018
Armenak Antinyan , Luca Corazzini , Filippo Pavesi
Does Trust in the Government Matter for Whistleblowing on Tax Evaders? Survey and Experimental Evidence
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 171 , p. 77 - 95 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
841,621
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies