Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of European Added Value Related to Ways To Bring More Simplicity, Lower Costs and Reduce Disputes for EU Firms

EU Parliament, June 2021

Posted: 3 Mar 2022

Patricia Lampreave

Instituto de Estudios Bursatiles (Universidad Complutense de Madrid), Law School

Date Written: June 23, 2021

Abstract

[The study examines the nature and scale of the problem of costs arising for different tax rules across Member States for EU SMEs, and how a significant reduction of cost and compliance risks associated with differing rules could be achieved. Since different EU proposals for a CCCTB have been rejected, the study presents potential improvements to the 2016 CCCTB proposal and potential alternatives in order to obtain a common EU system for calculating corporate profits, that Member States could be willing to adopt. Facing the future, the question is whether there are elements of the CCCTB that could be implemented via separate initiatives, with special emphasis on the future structure of corporate income tax and taxation on the digital economy.

The study’s overall conclusion is that there are many tax obstacles that businesses, operating cross-border have to face, in order to comply with different tax systems, which affect SMEs more drastically, in comparison with LEs. While there has been a gradual increase in international cooperation to obtain a consensus on future global corporate income tax and to tackle profit shifting, tax avoidance and harmful tax competition, a multilateral approach is essential to the global discussion on taxation of the digital economy and future corporate income tax rules. The aim is to ensure a level playing field for all companies and contribute to fair and effective taxation, regardless of the size of the business.

Keywords: EU Taxation, Digital Taxation, Cost, SMEs, Tax Avoidance, Tax Competition

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Lampreave, Patricia, Assessment of European Added Value Related to Ways To Bring More Simplicity, Lower Costs and Reduce Disputes for EU Firms (June 23, 2021). EU Parliament, June 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3970077
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
182
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies