Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Tax Loss Trafficking Rules and the Acquisition of Loss-Carrying Firms

54 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2022

Rebecca Hoehl

University of Göttingen

Date Written: November 2021

Abstract

In cases of mergers and acquisitions, anti-tax loss trafficking rules aim to prevent loss trafficking between firms and may result in the expiration of the target’s accumulated tax loss carryforwards. The acquirer is not willing to pay a premium for loss carryforwards as they do not reflect any future tax savings. This leads to an increasing marginal price differential in acquisition negotiations and may lead to fewer acquisitions of loss-carrying firms. I examine whether the relative rate or the absolute number of acquiring firms with loss carryforwards is affected by these regulations. Using European acquisitions from 2011 to 2017, my findings suggest that anti-tax loss trafficking rules indeed inhibit acquisitions of loss-carrying firms.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Tax Loss Treatment, Loss Transfer, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G34, H25, L22

Suggested Citation:

Hoehl, Rebecca, Anti-Tax Loss Trafficking Rules and the Acquisition of Loss-Carrying Firms (November 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3971019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3971019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
Do Takeover Targets Underperform? Evidence from Operating and Stock Returns
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 721 - 746 Posted: 2003
A Ali , T Kravet , B Li
Accounting Profitability and Takeover Likelihood Posted: 2016-03
H Amberger , L A Robinson
The Initial Effect of U.S. Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions, SSRN Working Paper Posted: 2021-11
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' Interpretation and Investors' Valuation of Tax Carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,071
RANK
317,158
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies