Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Enforcement Affect Cost Stickiness? ——Evidence on the Third Stage of the China Tax Administration Information System

51 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021 Last revised: 7 Dec 2021

Jing Dai

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

Rong Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Yihuan Mao

Independent

Date Written: December 2, 2021

Abstract

Abstract: In this paper, we examine how tax enforcement affects a firm’s cost behavior by investigating the effect of the third stage of the China Tax Administration Information System (CTAIS-3) on firms’ cost stickiness based on a sample of Chinese A-share listed firms from 2011 to 2016. Anticipating the greater tax enforcement after CTAIS-3, firms will have fewer cash holdings from tax savings and thus have a stronger incentive to decrease cost stickiness, as cost stickiness decreases liquidity. Consistent with this expectation, we find that the implementation of CTAIS-3 is associated with a decline in firms’ cost stickiness. This association is more pronounced for (1) firms with more serious agency problems; (2) firms with greater liquidity problems; and (3) firms with more tax avoidance. In addition, we also find that firms’ decision to reduce cost stickiness after CTAIS-3 results in better future performance. Our results are robust to performing the parallel trend test and placebo test, eliminating the confounding effect of VAT reform, using an alternative firm-level measure of cost stickiness, and controlling for province-by-year fixed effects. Collectively, our findings provide evidence that improvement in information technology reduces information asymmetry and tax enforcement can serve as a corporate governance mechanism to improve the effectiveness of firms’ rational resource management decisions.

Keywords: Tax Enforcement; The Third Stage of the China Tax Administration Information System; Cost Stickiness

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Jing and Huang, Rong and Mao, Yihuan, Does Tax Enforcement Affect Cost Stickiness? ——Evidence on the Third Stage of the China Tax Administration Information System (December 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3975920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S N Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
J S Ang , R Cole , J W Lin
Agency costs and ownership structure
The Journal of finance , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2000
R D Banker , D Byzalov , L T Chen
Employment protection legislation, adjustment costs and cross-country differences in cost behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 127 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
998
RANK
386,928
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Fiscal & Monetary Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies