Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Firm Investment

23 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2021

Kevin Devereux

Peking University

K. Peren Arin

Zayed University

Mieszko Mazur

ESSCA school of management

Abstract

We investigate the firm-level investment responses to narrative shocks to average personal and corporate tax rates using a universal micro dataset of publicly-traded U.S firms for the post-1962 period. By allowing for heterogeneous effects over the business cycle and accompanying monetary policy regime, as well as over firm-level characteristics, we show that: (i) corporate tax multipliers are negative overall, but this result is driven by smaller firms who face larger borrowing constraints, especially during the high-unemployment periods or when the accompanying monetary policy is contractionary; (ii) while the magnitude and the significance of personal income tax multipliers are smaller on the aggregate, there is some evidence of positive personal tax multipliers in high-unemployment state by large (dividend-paying) firms, which is consistent with the recent literature. We also show that these results may be driven by firms’ financial constraints.

Keywords: Taxes, firms, investment, personal income tax, capital income tax, capital constraints, Fiscal Policy, monetary policy

Suggested Citation:

Devereux, Kevin and Arin, K. Peren and Mazur, Mieszko, Taxes and Firm Investment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3977532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
K Arin , Faik Peren , Nicola Koray , Spagnolo
Fiscal multipliers in good times and bad times
Journal of Macroeconomics , volume 44 , p. 303 - 311 Posted: 2015
Alan J Auerbach , Yuriy Gorodnichenko
Measuring the output responses to fiscal policy
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2012
Ben Bernanke , Mark Gertler , Simon Gilchrist , J B Taylor , M Woodford
The financial accelerator in a quantitative business cycle framework
Handbook of Macroeconomics , volume 1 , p. 1341 - 1393 Posted: 1999
James Cloyne , Clodomiro Ferreira
Monetary Policy, Corporate Finance and Investment Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
555
RANK
663,174
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies