Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of the Digital Economy in Nigeria – Analysis of the Policy, Legal & Administrative Dimensions

81 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2022

Rachel Ogidan

University of Lagos, Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 7, 2021

Abstract

The growth and development of digital trade facilitate globalisation and ensure international development through the establishment of borderless economic relationships inter alia. However, concomitant with these advantages are taxation challenges within the international system. These challenges are borne out of the decreasing relevance of physical presence in the market or jurisdiction of the consumers, which destabilises conventional tax regimes which are inherently location-based. In addition to this is the increasing importance and mobility of intangibles. The proliferation of the aforementioned and the fast-paced nature of digitalisation has resulted in critical discussions on the reformation of the international taxation regime.

These discussions transcend the international tax regime to the municipal plane. It would appear that a common theme among all regimes is revenue generation.

The substantive legislation for the taxation of companies, CITA, provided for the taxation of non-resident companies in sections 9 and 13. However, these sections were drafted in line with the traditional basis of taxation. Thus, tax liability arose only where the taxable entity had a fixed base for business purposes; conducted business through an authorised agent; operated a business (contract for surveys, deliveries, installation or construction) in Nigeria; or where the trade or business was between the company and another person controlled by it. This principle fostered, among others, the requirement of permanent establishment as the basis of taxation for companies operating within any jurisdiction.

However, the growth of digitalisation created borderless economies permitting the conclusion of trade and commerce without the need for a permanent establishment in the jurisdiction. The proliferation of digital businesses and borderless economic activities highlighted the flaw of this basis of taxation for companies.

The provisions of the Companies Income Tax Act prior to the amendment in 2019 were not sufficient to bring digital companies within the tax net, and the directives by the FIRS were fraught with controversy.

To solve this problem, the Nigerian Government amended the CITA and other applicable tax laws to ensure that the profits derived by non-resident entities on account of the digital economy are subject to payment of the applicable taxes. This was done by the Finance Act 2019 and Finance Act 2020. Nevertheless, the application and enforcement of these provisions remain a pipedream. It is necessary to elucidate how the international community and other jurisdictions have approached taxation of the digital economy to provide insight into the correct implementation of the law and further amendments where necessary

Keywords: Taxation, Taxation of the Digital Economy, Digital Economy, OECD, Finance Act, Tax, International Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Ogidan, Rachel, Taxation of the Digital Economy in Nigeria – Analysis of the Policy, Legal & Administrative Dimensions (September 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3977655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,799
RANK
45,601
3 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies