Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis the impact of Information technology on Efficient tax Management

11 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2022

Pshdar Abdalla Hamza

Kurdistan Technical Institute

khowanas Qader

Lebanese French University

Bayar Gardi

Knowledge University - Department of Accounting

Hawkar Hamad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Govand Anwar

Knowledge University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: December 6, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of information technology on tax
administration in the Kurdistan. The impact of information technology on tax productivity as well as the link between information technology on tax implementation and tax planning were especially studied in this study. In this study, a descriptive research approach was adopted, with a questionnaire being used to collect data, which was then analyzed using multiple regression and Pearson product moment correlation. The findings of the study revealed that information technology (online tax filing, online tax registration and online tax remittance) has a positive impact on efficient tax management

Keywords: E-filling, IT, Tax Management, Accounting Management, Taxation.

Suggested Citation:

Abdalla Hamza, Pshdar and Qader, khowanas and Gardi, Bayar and Hamad, Hawkar and Anwar, Govand, Analysis the impact of Information technology on Efficient tax Management (December 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3979025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,048
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,660
RANK
49,033
1 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies