Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Taxation, R&D Spending, and Innovation

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-080

47 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021

Andreas Lichter

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf

Max Löffler

Maastricht University

Ingo E. Isphording

IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Thu-Van Nguyen

Association for the German Science

Felix Poege

Bocconi University - Department of Management and Technology; Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition ; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Sebastian Siegloch

University of Mannheim - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research - Corporate Taxation and Public Finance Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); University of Cologne - Cologne Centre for Public Economics (CPE)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

We study how profit taxation affects plants’ R&D spending and innovation activities. Relying on geocoded survey panel data which approximately covers the universe of R&D-active plants in Germany, we exploit around 7,300 changes in the municipal business tax rate over the period 1987–2013 for identification. Applying event study models, we find a negative and statistically significant effect of an increase in profit taxation on plants’ R&D spending with an implied long-run elasticity of −1.25. Reductions in R&D are particularly strong among more credit-constrained plants. In contrast, homogeneity of effects across the plant size distribution questions policy makers common practice to link targeted R&D tax incentives to plant size. We further find lagged negative effects on the (citation-weighted) number of filed patents.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, Firms, R&D, Innovation, Patents

JEL Classification: H25, H32, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Lichter, Andreas and Löffler, Max and Isphording, Ingo E. and Nguyen, Thu-Van and Pöge, Felix and Siegloch, Sebastian, Profit Taxation, R&D Spending, and Innovation (2021). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-080, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3979791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Philippe Aghion , Xavier Jaravel
Knowledge Spillovers, Innovation and Growth
Economic Journal , volume 125 , p. 533 - 573 Posted: 2015
Ajay Agrawal , Carlos Rosell , Timothy Simcoe
Tax Credits and Small Firms R&D Spending
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
Ufuk Akcigit , John Grigsby , Tom Nicholas , Stefanie Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century
Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2021
Kenneth J Arrow
Economic Welfare and the Allocation of Resources for Invention
The Rate and Direction of Inventive Activity: Economic and Social Factors , p. 609 - 626 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
RANK
178,213
4 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies