Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does the Deferral of a Distortive Tax Affect Overproduction and Asset Allocation?

43 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Nadja Fochmann

Leibniz Universität Hannover - Faculty of Economics and Management

Michael Milde

Leibniz Universität Hannover - Faculty of Economics and Management

Jochen Hundsdoerfer

Free University of Berlin (FUB); Norwegian Center for Taxation; ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Date Written: December 7, 2021

Abstract

Deferred income taxation is widely used to encourage investment or saving. However, most income tax bases are more or less distortive (non-neutral). Using lab experiments, we find that the deferral of a distortive income taxation can result in substantial overproduction and less willingness to take risks. Subjects underweight the deferred tax burden and neglect the tax distortion because they act myopically and tend to make choices in isolation rather than simultaneously (choice bracketing). Despite opportunities to learn, the overproduction remains substantial. Additional analyses confirm that the observed misperception of deferred taxes is not caused by low tax salience or low effort, as providing additional accounting information on deferred taxes and introducing accountability reports do not change overproduction behavior. Only if we change the timing of the taxation from deferred to an economically equivalent immediate distortive tax system do overproduction and the effect on asset allocation almost disappear.

Keywords: Deferred taxation, Immediate taxation, Distortive taxation, Choice bracketing, Tax misperception, Overproduction

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H30, H31. D91

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Fochmann, Nadja and Milde, Michael and Hundsdoerfer, Jochen, How Does the Deferral of a Distortive Tax Affect Overproduction and Asset Allocation? (December 7, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3979430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3979430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
H Ackermann , M Fochmann , B Mihm
Biased effects of taxes and subsidies on portfolio choices
Economics Letters , volume 120 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
J Alm
A perspective on the experimental analysis of taxpayer reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 577 - 593 Posted: 1991
J Alm
Testing behavioral public economics theories in the laboratory
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 Posted: 2010
K Andries , M Cools , S Van Uytbergen
To shift or not to shift? intertemporal income shifting as a response to the risk capital allowance introduction in belgium
European Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 531 - 559 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
580,215
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies