Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can Tax Gap Inform Tax Policy and Administration? A Case Study of Australia’s Individuals Income Tax

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021

Neil Warren

UNSW Business School

Richard Highfield

UNSW Sydney

Date Written: November 23, 2021

Abstract

Over the last decade or so, a relatively small but growing number of national revenue agencies have sought to better understand the health of their tax system by turning their attention to the concept of the ‘tax gap’— the difference between the estimated amount of tax legally payable for each tax administered and what is actually collected in practice. This interest has brought a focus to better understanding tax gap estimation methods (in particular, their strengths and limitations), the introduction of comprehensive tax gap research programs, and the public dissemination of tax gap findings to increase community awareness and signal the fact the revenue agency is serious about the tax gap as a long-term performance measure. And as these agencies often have administrative responsibility for more than just taxes (e.g. student loan repayments and superannuation contributions), these tax gap estimates can have implications beyond just taxes. In the case of Australia’s individuals income tax, this means that related tax gap estimates also have implications for government agencies administering income-related transfers (e.g. pensions and unemployment benefits) and service entitlements (e.g. health care cards).

This paper builds on recent tax gap research findings published by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) and examines what they mean for the main types of individuals income tax non-compliance, the main perpetrators, the behaviours underlying this non-compliance, and possible policy and administrative responses. The analysis is made by allocating the ATO’s individuals income tax gap estimates for 2015-16 to its 2% individuals sample file of taxpayers in 2016-17 and reviewing the results by sources of tax gap and how they differ across various socio-economic and demographic groupings. The paper also examines what these results might mean for the repayment of income-contingent Study and Training Support Loans (STSL) and for the payment of means-tested government transfers.

Finally, the paper presents a menu of potential reforms to address key weaknesses in individuals’ income tax policy design and administration that are resulting in considerable revenue leakage.


Keywords: Taxation, tax administration, tax gap, tax reform, personal income tax

JEL Classification: H24 H25

Suggested Citation:

Warren, Neil and Highfield, Richard, How Can Tax Gap Inform Tax Policy and Administration? A Case Study of Australia’s Individuals Income Tax (November 23, 2021). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Bringing increased knowledge and transparency to tax non-compliance
Individuals Income Tax Gap in Australia: 2015
Methodology for allocating 2015-16 Individuals Income Tax Gap to 2016-17 individuals sample file
Impact of tax gap across different population groupings
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
699
RANK
576,212
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies