Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Separation of Tax Service from Audit Service, Going-Concern Opinions and Discretionary Accruals

Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance (Forthcoming)

Posted: 15 Dec 2021

Kam Wah Lai

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: September 10, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines whether separating tax service of auditors from audit service improves audit quality. To some critics, the separation is the only solution to the independence problem created by the joint provision of both services by auditors. However, opponents argue that auditors are likely to have less client-specific knowledge when they only provide audit service, resulting in lower audit quality. The results of this paper show that clients without the purchase of auditor-provided tax service are more likely to have a going-concern modified audit opinion and lower discretionary accruals than clients with such purchase. Additional tests indicate that clients with (without) auditor-provided tax service would have had lower (higher) discretionary accruals or been more (less) likely to receive a going-concern opinion had they had not (had) purchased the tax service. The results are robust to the control for possible self-selection problem of clients’ purchase of tax service of auditors.

Keywords: Joint provision, auditor-provided tax service, going-concern opinions, discretionary accruals

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Kam Wah, Separation of Tax Service from Audit Service, Going-Concern Opinions and Discretionary Accruals (September 10, 2021). Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3982806
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
367
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies