Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tourist Tax and Ratings of Online Reviews

Quaderni - Working Paper DSE N° 1168

33 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2021

Antonio Marsi

University of Bologna

Emanuela Randon

University of Bologna

Date Written: December 13, 2021

Abstract

Tourist taxes represent one of the principal sources of revenue for a number of local authorities. Using a dataset of more than 300 thousands reviews on TripAdvisor, we analyze the effect of tourist taxes on online ratings posted by hotel costumers. Online ratings are strategic variables for the competitiveness of hotels and local destinations and so the assessment of the impact of tourist taxes on online reviews is important to design suitable strategies and policies both for firms and local municipalities. We show that the share of complaints about the tax increases with the tax rate, but the relationship gets weaker as the hotel quality increases, suggesting that low-quality costumers are more sensitive to tax increases. Tax mentioning reviews have on average a 20% lower rating and this difference becomes smaller and not significant for high quality hotels. We disentangle the different sources of complaining, finding that the lack of information and the cash payments weight more negatively on the average rating (respectively less 27% and 21%). Using a random-effects logit model we show that what matters for costumers is the percentage tax on the room price and not the absolute amount of the legal tax rates based on the hotel stars. This effect is present only for hotel stays with an average double room price under 100 Euros. Our results provide public authorities with useful suggestions to change the actual tax system by setting the tourist tax as an ad valorem tax on room price and assessing optimal tax rates accordingly to their incidence on the price of the stay.

Keywords: Tourism Tax, Online Ratings, Tax Incidence

JEL Classification: D12, H21, H22, L83, Z3

Suggested Citation:

Marsi, Antonio and Randon, Emanuela, Tourist Tax and Ratings of Online Reviews (December 13, 2021). Quaderni - Working Paper DSE N° 1168, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3984821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3984821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
D R Agrawal , W H Hoyt , J D Wilson
Local Policy Choice: Theory and Empirics
Journal of Economic Literature Posted: 2021
E Aguiló , A Riera , J Rosselló
The short-term price effect of a tourist tax through a dynamic demand model. The case of the Balearic Islands
Tourism Management , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 359 - 365 Posted: 2005
T Besley , A Case
Does Electoral Accountability affect Economic Policy Choices? Evidence from Gubernatorial Term Limits
The Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 1995-08
B Biagi , M G Brandano , M Pulina
Tourism taxation: A synthetic control method for policy evaluation
International Journal of Tourism Research , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 505 - 514 Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Adem Demirbozan , Sedat Polat
A Qualitative Research on Exemption and Exception Practices in Accommodation Tax
Eskişehir Osmangazi Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 671 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
RANK
697,815
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Transportation, Economy & Society eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies