Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of a Global Minimum Tax on Corporate Balance Sheets and Real Activities: Evidence from the Insurance Industry

65 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2021 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Johnny Tang

Harvard University, Department of Economics; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: Jan 16, 2022

Abstract

How do global minimum taxes affect corporate balance sheets and real activities? I study this question using the introduction of the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) on multinational insurance companies operating in the US. I find that the BEAT implementation significantly changed the internal capital allocation of insurers, increased global risk-sharing, and increased product prices in the US. I document three main sets of findings. First, the global minimum tax significantly changed the internal capital allocation of insurance companies and decreased the amount of transfer payments of US insurers to their foreign affiliates by 59%, or $30 billion per year. The changes in allocation were primarily driven by foreign-domiciled insurance groups and insurance groups which used foreign affiliates more extensively prior to the tax reform. Second, the tax increased global risk-sharing, inducing insurers to diversify more risk with external counterparties. Revealed-preference estimates suggest that the total increase in risk-sharing is worth $1.9 billion per year for insurers, equal to 2.9% of insurers’ total net income. Third, insurance companies affected by the minimum tax increased policy prices by 1.03% relative to not-affected insurers.

Keywords: Tax, insurance

JEL Classification: G20, G22, G28, H20

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Johnny, The Effects of a Global Minimum Tax on Corporate Balance Sheets and Real Activities: Evidence from the Insurance Industry (Jan 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3987317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3987317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S Agarwal , J C Driscoll , X Gabaix , D Laibson
The age of reason: Financial decisions over the life cycle and implications for regulation
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 , p. 51 - 117 Posted: 2009
A M Best
Bests impairment rate and rating transition study-1977 to Posted: 2014
A Barinov , J Xu , S W Pottier
Estimating the cost of equity capital for insurance firms with multiperiod asset pricing models
Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 213 - 245 Posted: 2020
B Becker , V Ivashina
Reaching for yield in the bond market
Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 1863 - 1902 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
122,537
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies