Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion Policies and the Demand for Cash

58 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2021

Edoardo Rainone

Bank of Italy

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship between cash and tax evasion by studying the effects of two measures to fight evasion: accessing taxpayers’ banking data to check the consistency with reported income and discouraging the use of cash with thresholds on payments. We show that variation in cash holdings triggered by these policies can be substantial, about 1.5 per cent of the GDP. Exploiting regional heterogeneity in tax evasion propensity and using a simple model of tax evasion and payment choice, we find that both policies do not significantly raise tax revenues. Accessing banking data pushes evaders to convert deposits into cash and keep avoiding taxes for about 2 per cent of total annual tax revenues. The difficulty of tracing cash transactions makes thresholds effective mostly for tax compliers.

Keywords: cash demand, tax evasion and avoidance, fiscal policy, monetary economics, financial stability, deposits.

Suggested Citation:

Rainone, Edoardo, Tax Evasion Policies and the Demand for Cash. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3988679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3988679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
A Acquisti , T Curtis , W Liad
The Economics of Privacy
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 442 - 492 Posted: 2016
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , B Jackson , M Mckee
Institutional Uncertainty and Taxpayer Compliance
The American Economic Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 1018 - 1026 Posted: 1992
F Alvarez , D Argente , R Jimenez , F Lippi
Cash: A Blessing or a curse?
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 125 , p. 85 - 128 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
719,188
2 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies