Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of taxation in the telecommunications industry

26 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021

Raul L. Katz

The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information (CITI)

Juan Jung

Universidad Pontificia Comillas; Telecom Advisory Services

Date Written: December 23, 2021

Abstract

In this article we study the impact of taxation in the telecommunications sector. In order to do so, we develop a model considering the taxes and fees imposed directly or indirectly along the telecommunications value chain. Overall, we find evidence of a negative impact on investment from an increase in regulatory fees, profit taxes and custom duties for equipment. On the other hand, we were not able to find evidence of labor taxes, VAT and other taxes having a negative impact on investment decisions. In addition, telecommunication service prices are affected by the fiscal regime, both directly -through taxation over services- and indirectly, through obligations imposed on investment which, in turn, have an impact on network coverage and prices. Broadband adoption will be indirectly affected by taxes through limited coverage and service pricing, and directly if import duties on smartphones are imposed. On this basis, we simulate different fiscal-policy scenarios, to estimate potential gains from tax reforms. Considering these findings, and the potential socioeconomic gains from increasing broadband adoption, we believe that governments pursuing the development of digital agendas should consider potential fiscal reforms to accelerate development of the digital economy. That being said, considering the potential loses in tax collection, a careful trade-off analysis should be performed before determining the nature and the scope of the fiscal reforms to be introduced.

Keywords: Telecommunications, Taxation

JEL Classification: L96, H25

Suggested Citation:

Katz, Raul L. and Jung, Juan, The impact of taxation in the telecommunications industry (December 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Andrianaivo , K R Kpodar
ICT, financial inclusion, and growth: Evidence from African countries. IMF Working Papers Posted: 2011
O Arawomo , J F Apanisile
Determinants of foreign direct investment in the Nigerian telecommunication sector
Modern Economy , volume 9 , issue 5 Posted: 2018
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations. The review of economic studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
A J Auerbach
Taxation and capital spending. Paper prepared for the Academic Consultants Meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Posted: 2005-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
602
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,012
RANK
102,790
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies