Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Policies in a Transition to a Knowledge-Based Economy – The Effective Tax Burden of Companies and Highly Skilled Labour

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-096

53 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2021

Leonie Fischer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Jost H. Heckemeyer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; University of Kiel - Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Daniela Steinbrenner

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Globalisation and the fast-approaching digitalisation increase capital as well as labour mobility fostering tax competition among countries worldwide. Based on a unique dataset, we analyse the development of effective tax burdens on corporations and highly skilled labour for 26 OECD countries over the last decade. The synthesis of both indicators allows us to identify tax strategies of the countries considered and to further elaborate on the scope of future tax competition against the background of current developments. Overall, we find a declining trend in effective tax burdens on corporate investments, whereas we observe increases in the top statutory tax rates for high-income earners and a rather constant average effective tax burden on labour for a disposable income of EUR 100’000. Current developments like the agreement on a global minimum tax or the transition to a knowledge-based economy can set a new lower bound to tax competition on corporate investments and might shift its focus.

Keywords: effective tax rates, tax competition, location attractiveness, corporate location decision, Devereux/Griffith Methodology, Human Resource Tax Analyzer

JEL Classification: H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Leonie and Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Heckemeyer, Jost H. and Spengel, Christoph and Steinbrenner, Daniela, Tax Policies in a Transition to a Knowledge-Based Economy – The Effective Tax Burden of Companies and Highly Skilled Labour (2021). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 21-096, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3996168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3996168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
In contrast to the evolution of the average statutory top personal income tax rate, we do not observe an overall increase in the average effective tax burden over the last decade
3% in Russia to 57.6% in Belgium, while in 2019, the lowest EATR in Russia slightly increased to 16.3%, whereas the highest EATR decreased to 59.5% for Belgium. To better illustrate these differences, we translate the EATRs back into total remuneration costs an employer faces in each location. 50 Thus in 2019, employers incurred expenses of EUR 119'474 in Russia to compensate their highly skilled employees for a disposable income of EUR 100'000 after taxes
2009, the EATRs range from 15
Luxembourg had a rather moderate effective tax burden of labour at 34.7% in 2009 but approached the overall average EATR with 40.1% in 2019. With Ireland, another rather small EU economy showed one of the most significant increases in the effective tax burden (+6.6 pp) over the last ten years, which is due to several cuts in personal tax credits, allowances as well as the abolition of the employee's income ceiling to global social insurance. Not surprisingly, we find that the Scandinavian countries levied relatively high tax levels -topped, however
This higher level of effective tax burdens is driven by the Continental EU Member States, including Ireland and the UK, as their average tax burden is with 45.7% in 2009 and 46.6% in 2019 significantly higher than the overall average Posted: 2009
The reform of the occupational pension system (integration of the two previously existing constructs into one system, which is shown to be advantageous in the modelling, especially for high incomes) results in a significant reduction of the effective burden which is accompanied by a slight reduction of the effective tax burden due to adjustments of the progression schedule of the personal income tax. For more information on the French pension tax reform in 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
RANK
425,064
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies