Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sectoral Effects of Value-Added Tax: Evidence from UAE Stock Markets

93 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2021

Anagha Ann Gopakumar

University of Wollongong in Dubai

Date Written: December 23, 2018

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of 19 announcements relating to the introduction of value-added tax (VAT) in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), on the equities listed on Abu Dhabi Stock Exchange (ADX). Using a well-established event study methodology applied on daily data over the period from 2016 to 2018, a sector-wise assessment of the value constructiveness or destructiveness of these announcements is conducted. Significant sectoral differences in abnormal returns are expected, with industries like insurance and retail showing higher sensitivity. Some announcements are also expected to have a more substantial impact than the rest, irrespective of sectors. These results are highly valuable as a source of information regarding the sectoral effects of VAT in the UAE, as well as a reference for the possible impact of VAT introduction in other countries in the Gulf region and the rest of the world.

Keywords: Value Added Tax, Abnormal Returns, Systematic Risk, Equity Market

JEL Classification: G12, G14, H25

Suggested Citation:

Gopakumar, Anagha Ann, The Sectoral Effects of Value-Added Tax: Evidence from UAE Stock Markets (December 23, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3996708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3996708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Overview
References ADX Posted: 2018-10-01
P Ahlerup , T Baskaran , A Bigsten
Tax innovations and public revenues in Sub-Saharan Africa , volume 51 , p. 689 - 706 Posted: 2015
K Alavuotunki , M Haapanen , J Pirttilä
The Effects of the Value-Added Tax on Revenue and Inequality
The Journal of Development Studies , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2018
A Ataullah , X Song , M Tippett
A Modified Corrado Test for Assessing Abnormal Security Returns
European Journal of Finance , volume 17 , p. 589 - 601 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
481
RANK
826,938
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies