Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxes and the Earnings Distribution: Effects of the Domestic Production Activities Deduction

FEDS Working Paper No. 2021-81

85 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2022 Last revised: 20 Jan 2022

Christine Dobridge

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Paul Landefeld

Government of the United States of America - Joint Committee on Taxation

Jacob Mortenson

Joint Committee on Taxation, US Congress

Date Written: December, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates how corporate tax changes affect workers’ earnings. We use a dataset of U.S. worker-level W-2 filings matched with corporate tax returns and study the implementation of the Domestic Production Activities Deduction (DPAD). We find the DPAD tax rate reduction has a substantial effect on the distribution of annual wage earnings within a firm. Earnings of workers at the top of their firm’s earnings distribution rise relative to those at the bottom of the distribution. We estimate a semi-elasticity of average earnings of 1.1 with respect to the DPAD marginal tax rate reduction, while the semi-elasticity of median earnings is notably smaller—0.5. Furthermore, we estimate a semi-elasticity of 1.3 at the 95th percentile of workers’ earnings and 2.7 at the 99th percentile. This trend of larger semi-elasticities at the top of the earnings distribution is especially pronounced for small firms. Looking at overall employment effects, we see no change overall, but the number of employees rises at small firms and declines at large firms. In contrast, we find that capital investment rises for large firms, suggesting that the DPAD also resulted in domestic capitallabor substitution for large corporations. Our paper has significant implications for assessing the progressivity of the U.S. tax code and for analyzing the effect of corporate tax policy changes on the U.S. income distribution.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, Earnings distribution, Employment, Investment

JEL Classification: D31, H22, H25, J31

Suggested Citation:

Dobridge, Christine and Landefeld, Paul and Mortenson, Jacob, Corporate Taxes and the Earnings Distribution: Effects of the Domestic Production Activities Deduction (December, 2021). FEDS Working Paper No. 2021-81, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3997002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2021.081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Li Liu
Measuring the Burden of the Corporate Income Tax under Imperfect Competition
National Tax Journal , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 215 - 238 Posted: 2013
Daron Acemoglu , David Autor
Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Employment and Earnings
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1166 Posted: 2011
Alan J Auerbach , James M Poterba
Who Bears the Corporate Tax? A Review of What We Know
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 20 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2005
Wiji Arulampalam , Michael Devereux , Giorgia Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
William G. Gale , Samuel Thorpe
Rethinking the Corporate Income Tax: The Role of Rent Sharing
45 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2022 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
344,239
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Research Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies