Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of the Nigerian Digital Economy in View of the 2019 and 2020 Finance Act

56 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2022 Last revised: 18 Jan 2022

Oluwatofunmi I Aduloju

University of Lagos

Date Written: January 6, 2022

Abstract

Today's world is rigged with a number of technological advancements. It’s a digital era, and the rapid spread and growth of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), as well as constant access to it, has had a significant impact on our economic practices, causing businesses to follow new business models, rely more on tech-based solutions, and E-commerce to take on entirely new forms. This evolution of a Digital Economy is characterized by a high level of innovation and disruption of the status quo including the status quo in the field of Taxation.

As will be seen in this research project, the taxation of the digital economy is quite challenging, and this is not peculiar to Nigeria, as all other countries are also battling to struggle to effectively tax the digital economy. This paper aims to critically evaluate the taxation of the Nigerian digital economy in view of the 2019 and 2020 Finance Acts. In doing this, this research would have answered important research questions such as the meaning and nature of the digital economy, why is it important to tax the digital economy, what effort has been deployed all over the world for taxation of the digital economy, and lastly, what has Nigeria done in view of taxing the digital economy.

This paper employs a doctrinal approach in achieving the aforementioned objective and providing answers to the problems stated above. At the end of this paper, the writer will show that Nigeria has adopted the significant economic presence approach to tax the digital economy, acknowledge the existence of a number of challenges faced in the implementation of this approach, and proffer solutions.

Keywords: Taxation, Digital Economy, Finance Act, OECD, Significant Economic Presence OECD, BEPS, Pillar 1, Pillar 2

Suggested Citation:

Aduloju, Oluwatofunmi I, Taxation of the Nigerian Digital Economy in View of the 2019 and 2020 Finance Act (January 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4002469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4002469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Address the tax challenges of the digital economy
Neutralize the effects of hybrid mismatch arrangements
Strengthen Controlled foreign company (CFC) rules
Limit base erosion via interest deductions and other financial payments
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
848
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,925
RANK
65,792
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies