Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Politics of Religion and Taxation: Keeping Church and State Separate

Journal of Management Policy and Practice Vol. 22(2) 2021

14 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Mary Ann Hofmann

Appalachian State University

Date Written: July 10, 2021

Abstract

This paper discusses tax laws and federal court decisions relating to the taxation or exemption of religious non-profit organizations. In a democracy characterized by separation of church and state, what role does the federal government play in regulating the activities and financial transactions of churches and other religious non-profit organizations? What are the federal statutory requirements regarding tax exemption for churches, tax deductibility of donations to churches, and political activity by churches, and are these requirements justified? Does this regulation interfere with the free exercise of religion, or does the federal government violate the establishment clause of the First Amendment by providing inappropriate tax benefits to churches and clergy?

Keywords: exempt entities, government regulation of religious organizations, free exercise clause, establishment clause of First Amendment

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Mary Ann, The Politics of Religion and Taxation: Keeping Church and State Separate (July 10, 2021). Journal of Management Policy and Practice Vol. 22(2) 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4005444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Abortion Rights Mobilization Inc. v. Regan, 544 F. Supp. 471 (DC NY Posted: 1982
American Atheists , Inc
P Applebome
Religious Right Intensifies Campaign for Bush
Saturday, Late Edition -Final) Posted: 1992-10-31
Branch Ministries Inc. v. Rossotti, 40 F.Supp.2d 15 (DC Dist
Conning v. Busey, 127 F.Supp. 958 , volume 211 Posted: 1954
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,450
RANK
144,198
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies