Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Financial Accounting Information to Estimate The Income Shifting of U.S. Multinationals

61 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2022 Last revised: 16 Nov 2023

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Robert Hills

Pennsylvania State University

Kevin Markle

Michigan State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 12, 2023

Abstract

We use microeconomic data from firms’ public financial statements and disclosures to derive firm-year estimates of the outbound income shifting and income booked in tax havens of U.S. multinationals (MNCs). We aggregate our estimates of these two key metrics and compare those aggregate amounts to existing estimates generated using macroeconomic data. Our estimates are lower than the macro estimates, with some differences being marginal and others being extreme. We investigate the determinants of the differences in aggregate estimates of shifted income and find that they are largely driven by measurement error in macro estimates of aggregate income. We leverage the granular nature of the micro data to show that the aggregate amounts of shifted income and income booked in tax havens are dominated by a small number of very large firms and firms in the computer and pharmaceutical industries. Finally, we show that the ad hoc size thresholds in recently proposed and enacted tax laws are likely to be largely effective in capturing MNCs shifting the most income but that they are also likely to subject many firms that shift minimal income to compliance costs. Our findings inform the ongoing efforts to reform international tax policy in a globalized economy.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Income Shifting, Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H26, E62, H68

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Hills, Robert and Markle, Kevin, Using Financial Accounting Information to Estimate The Income Shifting of U.S. Multinationals (November 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4007595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
898
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,462
RANK
49,384
6 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies