Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Top Earners Respond to Taxation? Own- and Cross-Tax Base Responses, Efficiency, and Inequality

127 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2022 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Marcelo Bergolo

Universidad de la Republica - Instituto de Economía; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Gabriel Burdin

University of Siena - Department of Economics and Statistics

Mauricio De Rosa

Instituto de Economía - Universidad de la República; Paris School of Economics

Matias Giaccobasso

VATT Institute for Economic Research

Martin Leites

Universidad de la República

Horacio Rueda

Universidad de la Republica - Instituto de Economía; University of Houston - Department of Economics

Date Written: June 19, 2025

Abstract

This paper presents new evidence on how top income earners respond to changes in the personal labor income tax schedule, uncovering both own- and cross-tax base responses within a unified framework. For identification, we exploit a 2012 tax reform in Uruguay that generated quasi-random variation in top marginal rates within the top 1% of the labor income distribution. Our empirical approach relies on a difference-in-differences identification strategy and administrative records linked at the individual level across multiple tax bases. We estimate an own-tax base intensive margin elasticity of 0.77 and extensive margin semi-elasticity of 2.64. Extensive margin responses are mostly driven by taxpayers shifting from the personal labor income tax base toward corporate income or capital income tax bases (semi-elasticities of -0.79 and -0.75, respectively). Our preferred estimates suggest that the reform was effective in increasing tax revenues, with efficiency costs representing 27% of the projected increase. However, it had limited impact on inequality, most likely due to its narrow scope and income shifting toward tax bases with lower and flat rates. Overall, our results indicate that policy efforts aiming to reduce inequality by increasing top marginal tax rates should also focus on limiting income shifting opportunities to strengthen their redistributive effects.

Keywords: Income taxation, top income earners, tax reform, reported income supply, income-shifting

JEL Classification: H21, H24, H30, J22, O23

Suggested Citation:

Bergolo, Marcelo and Burdin, Gabriel and De Rosa, Mauricio and Giaccobasso, Matias and Leites, Martin and Rueda, Horacio,
How do Top Earners Respond to Taxation? Own- and Cross-Tax Base Responses, Efficiency, and Inequality
(June 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4007698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
R Aaberge , M Mogstad
Inequality in current and lifetime income
Social Choice and Welfare , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 230 Posted: 2015
K O Aarbu , T O Thoresen
Income responses to tax changes-evidence from the norwegian tax reform
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 335 Posted: 2001
D R Agrawal , D Foremny
Relocation of the rich: Migration in response to top tax rate changes from spanish reforms
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 214 - 232 Posted: 2019
U Akcigit , J Grigsby , T Nicholas , S Stantcheva
Taxation and Innovation in the Twentieth Century
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 137 , issue 1 , p. 329 - 385 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
400
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,751
RANK
168,642
2 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies