Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fintech Lending Tax Planning Strategy Based On Indonesian Taxation Rules

Jurnal Hukum: Activa Yuris 2021

10 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2022

Nafis Dwi Kartiko

Directorate General of Taxes - Indonesia

Ismi Fathia Rachmi

Bina Nusantara University (BINUS)

Date Written: August 1, 2021

Abstract

Technology is a necessary component of life and has an effect on it. The existence of technology has pushed the economy in a digital direction, which is continuing to grow. This trend is being felt across the economy, including the financial services sector. Fintech is one of the technological advancements in the financial services industry. Indonesia's fintech regulations are less complex than those in other countries. One of the regulatory flaws manifests itself in the area of taxation. As a result, fintech companies must develop a tax planning strategy. The purpose of this paper is to examine tax planning strategies for fintech lending through the lens of qualitative-descriptive research methods. The analysis is based on Indonesia's current legal provisions. The researchers developed tax planning strategies specifically for corporate income tax and value-added tax. The researchers concluded as follows based on the findings of the current regulation study: (1) in terms of value-added tax, fintech lending should pay attention to the limitations of taxable entrepreneurs, the separation of taxable and incentive income, as well as ensuring that input tax credit works properly; and (2) ensure that taxes withheld by third parties are appropriate and have a purpose.

Keywords: Fintech Lending, Tax Planning, Value-Added Tax, Corporate Income Tax

Suggested Citation:

Kartiko, Nafis Dwi and Rachmi, Ismi Fathia, Fintech Lending Tax Planning Strategy Based On Indonesian Taxation Rules (August 1, 2021). Jurnal Hukum: Activa Yuris 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4008429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
L Abdillah
An Overview of Indonesian Fintech Application
The First International Conference on Communication, Information Technology and Youth Study (I-CITYS2019) Posted: 2019
L Abdillah
An Overview of Indonesian Fintech Application , p. 8 - 16 Posted: 2019
S Agarwal , J Zhang
FinTech, lending and payment innovation: A review
Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies , volume 49 , issue 3 , p. 353 - 367 Posted: 2020
M Ansori
Perkembangan dan Dampak Financial Technology (Fintech) terhadap Industri Keuangan Syariah di Jawa Tengah
Wahana Islamika: Jurnal Studi Keislaman , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 45 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
875
RANK
333,158
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies