Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does it Matter Who Remits? Evidence from U.S. States' Voluntary Collection Agreements

40 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022

Tejaswi Velayudhan

University of California, Irvine

Yeliz Kacamak

Bogazici University - Department of Economics

Eleanor Wilking

Cornell University - Law School; NYU Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 29, 2021

Abstract

In South Dakota v. Wayfair (2018), the Supreme Court empowered states to require remote sellers to remit sales taxes, thereby eliminating a persistent difference in the tax treatment of online and brick and mortar commerce. Despite the attention this decision received, we know little about how shifting the responsibility to remit will affect consumption or the tax system. To remedy this, we use states’ staggered adoption of Voluntary Collection Agreements (VCAs), which committed large online retailers to remit sales taxes prior to Wayfair. We find that online retailer remittance stemmed sales tax base erosion and shifted consumption towards brick-and-mortar retailers. The increased tax burden fell mainly on consumers though it did not significantly affect the distributional burden of U.S. sales taxes.

Keywords: Tax evasion, tax remittance, online retail, sales tax, tax administration

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Velayudhan, Tejaswi and Kacamak, Yeliz and Wilking, Eleanor, Does it Matter Who Remits? Evidence from U.S. States' Voluntary Collection Agreements (September 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4012287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4012287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Whitney B Afonso
The Impact of the Amazon Tax on Local Sales Tax Revenue in Urban and Rural Jurisdictions
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 68 - 90 Posted: 2019
Scott R Baker , Stephanie Johnson , Lorenz Kueng
Shopping for lower sales tax rates
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 250 Posted: 2021
Tripp Baltz , Michael J Bologna
Covid Accelerates a Wave of 'Wayfair' Tax Revenue Posted: 2020
Brian Baugh , Itzhak Ben-David , Hoonsuk Park
Can Taxes Shape an Industry? Evidence from the Implementation of the "Amazon Tax
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1819 - 1855 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
468
RANK
303,670
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies