Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Fertilizing the Tax Classroom

Pittsburgh Tax Review, 2022

43 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2022

Mark J. Cowan

Boise State University -Department of Accountancy

Joshua Cutler

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 18, 2022

Abstract

Taxation, embedded in both the legal and accounting professions, is taught in law schools and business schools. Courses in the former develop the skills of future tax attorneys, who will engage in tax structuring, document drafting, and litigation. Courses in the latter develop the skills of future CPAs, who will engage in tax compliance. But both lawyers and CPAs do tax research, tax planning, and represent clients on audit. The skills both professionals need and the content they are taught in both schools overlap to a great extent. (Indeed, masters of taxation courses in accounting programs often use law school casebooks.) Because of the overlap, there is much that teachers in both schools can learn from one another. In this contribution, we examine ways that tax accounting teaching approaches can be used in the law school classroom and vice versa. For example, future tax lawyers could benefit from more exposure to the compliance issues that are taught in business schools—not to convert them into tax preparers, but to help them better engage in tax planning or litigation. Likewise, future CPAs could benefit from more development of the critical thinking skills that are emphasized in law schools—to help avoid myopia and better serve clients.

The authors are uniquely positioned to comment on the benefits of law school-business school cross-fertilization in teaching tax law. We’ve both been tax students in business and law schools and we both teach graduate-level taxation courses to accounting and law students.


Keywords: Taxation, Law, Accounting, Education

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Cowan, Mark J. and Cutler, Joshua, Cross-Fertilizing the Tax Classroom (January 18, 2022). Pittsburgh Tax Review, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4012280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
William Donnelly , Susanne O' Callaghan , John P Walker
Top 10 Tax Claims, 187
J. OF ACCT , volume 57 Posted: 1999-02
Id
, volume 6
Id
, p. 113 - 118
Ryan Finley , ' Coca-Cola , U S
While we could give many examples of the use of court opinions, we look at one: the tax treatment of ordinary and necessary business expenses. Undergraduate tax textbooks usually note that ordinary and necessary business expenses 140 are deductible and personal expenses are not. 141 But the textbooks do not generally explain how ambiguous the business-personal line can be in many real-world cases. In contrast, tax law casebooks spotlight the ambiguity by using edited court opinions. Based on the latest available data, disputes over ordinary and necessary business expenses are the fourth most litigated tax issue. 142 The definition of an ordinary and necessary business expense is subjective and based on the taxpayer's particular facts and circumstances. As Justice Cardozo famously put it
143 A riddle like this is an ideal opportunity to show accounting students the advocacy mindset. At Boise State, we have students read edited versions of two U.S. Tax Court opinions: Sanitary Farms Dairy Posted: 2021-02-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
RANK
576,212
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies