Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Global Minimum Tax

CESifo Working Paper No. 9527

22 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2022

Niels Johannesen

University of Copenhagen

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This paper studies how the global minimum tax shapes national tax policies and welfare in a formal model of international tax competition with heterogeneous countries. The net welfare effect is generally ambiguous from the perspective of non-havens. On the one hand, the global minimum tax raises their welfare by curbing profit shifting, which boosts government revenue. One the other hand, it lowers their welfare by increasing equilibrium tax rates in havens, which transfers real resources from non-haven firms to haven governments. The net welfare effect is unambiguously positive when the global minimum rate is so high that profit shifting ends.

Keywords: profit shifting, international taxation, global minimum tax, tax avoidance multinational firms

Suggested Citation:

Johannesen, Niels, The Global Minimum Tax (2022). CESifo Working Paper No. 9527, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
W Arulampalam , M P Devereux , G Maffini
The direct incidence of corporate income tax on wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
M Barake , T Neef , P E Chouc , G Zucman
Collecting the tax deficit of multinational companies simulations for the European Union
EU Tax Observatory, Report No , volume 1 Posted: 2021
J Becker
Second-Best Source-Based Taxation of Multinational Firms Posted: 2021
J Becker , N Johannesen , N Riedel
Taxation and the allocation of risk inside the multinational firm
Journal of Public Economics , volume 183 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
80,083
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies