Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Right to Financial Privacy in an Era of Mandatory Duties of Disclosure

38 Banking & Finance L. Rev. 285-305 (2022)

18 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2022 Last revised: 23 Aug 2025

Ruth Plato-Shinar

Netanya Academic College, Israel

Date Written: June 1, 2021

Abstract

The article deals with bank secrecy and the customer's right to financial privacy from a constitutional point of view. It contends that despite the great importance of the right to financial privacy, various interests may override it and justify a mandatory disclosure of information. The article proposes a formula for balancing the right with conflicting interests, and for determining situations in which the duty of disclosure should prevail.

For this purpose, the article analyses three mandatory reporting duties: In the domestic arena - the reporting duty under the anti-money laundering regime; in the international arena – the duty to report to foreign tax authorities the accounts of customers with foreign citizenship; and in the commercial arena - the reporting duty under the credit data sharing regime.

The Israeli law, under which the right to financial privacy is considered a constitutional right, is used in the article as a case study.

Keywords: bank secrecy, financial privacy, anti-money laundering, FATCA, credit data, bank-customer relationship

JEL Classification: K14, K23, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Plato-Shinar, Ruth, The Right to Financial Privacy in an Era of Mandatory Duties of Disclosure (June 1, 2021). 38 Banking & Finance L. Rev. 285-305 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4016568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Hirsh
Tamir Book (Bursi Posted: 1999
Interpretation Law (Israel), s. 4. In addition, there is no provision in the Basic Law that is similar to s.3 of the Privacy Protection Law, which denies the application of the law to corporations
Regulation of Investment Counselling, Investment Marketing and Portfolio Management Law (Israel) , volume 8 , p. 5755 - 1995 Posted: 2006
Tournier
, volume 3
Skoler
, volume 10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
677,757
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies