Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation with Multiple Incomes and Types

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-006/VI

56 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2022

Kevin Spiritus

KU Leuven; Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Etienne Lehmann

Université Paris II - Panthéon-Assas - ERMES

Sander Renes

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Floris Zoutman

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 19, 2022

Abstract

We analyze the optimal nonlinear income tax schedule when taxpayers earn multiple in- comes and differ along many unobserved dimensions. We derive the necessary conditions for the government’s optimum using both a tax perturbation and a mechanism design approach, and show that both methods produce the same results. Our main contribution is to propose a numerical method to find the optimal tax schedule. Applied to the optimal taxation of couples, we find that optimal isotax curves are very close to linear and parallel. The slope of isotax curves is strongly affected by the relative tax-elasticity of male and female income. We make several additional contributions, including a test for Pareto efficiency and a condition on primitives that ensures the government’s necessary conditions are sufficient and the solution to the problem is unique.

Keywords: Nonlinear Optimal Taxation, Multidimensional Screening, Household Income Taxation

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H24, D82

Suggested Citation:

Spiritus, Kevin and Spiritus, Kevin and Lehmann, Etienne and Renes, Sander and Zoutman, Floris, Optimal Taxation with Multiple Incomes and Types (January 19, 2022). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-006/VI, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4016587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
RANK
239,334
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies