Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Ethics and Economic Incentives Mitigate Tax Preparers' Aggressive Judgments and Decisions?

28 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2022

Ki Wook Kim

University of Seoul

Taesup Shim

Graduate School of Science in Taxation, University of Seoul

Ji Seon Yoo

Chonnam National University

Abstract

We examine whether the personal attribute of ethics and an external economic incentive in the form of a standard tax preparation fee can mitigate tax preparers’ aggressive tax reporting behavior. Based on the results of a quasi-experiment involving tax preparers in Korea, we find that ethical attributes both directly and indirectly mitigate aggressive tax reporting by reducing tax preparers’ fear of client dissatisfaction. We then find that the introduction of a standard tax preparation fee does not directly or indirectly suppress the tax aggressiveness of tax preparers. Despite the lack of a significant impact of the standard fee, our descriptive evidence implicitly supports the potential impact of such a fee on less ethical tax preparers. Therefore, governments and policy makers should continue developing effective external mechanisms to enhance tax preparer compliance.

Keywords: Aggressive tax reporting, ethics, standard tax preparation fee, tax preparers

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Ki Wook and Shim, Taesup and Yoo, Ji Seon, Can Ethics and Economic Incentives Mitigate Tax Preparers' Aggressive Judgments and Decisions?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4019069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Statements on Standards for Tax Service 1-7 Posted: 2010
L Babcock , G Oewenstein , S Issacharoff , C Camerer
Biased judgments of fairness in bargaining
The American Economic Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1337 - 1343 Posted: 1995
C Blanthorne , S Kaplan
An egocentric model of the relations among the opportunity to underreport, social norms, ethical beliefs, and underreporting behavior
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 33 , issue 7-8 , p. 684 - 703 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
547
RANK
778,997
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies