Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Doctrine of Earnings Hardship Taxation

69 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2022

Dr Clement Chak

University of Canterbury

Date Written: January 19, 2022

Abstract

This doctoral study, “Comprehensive Anti Tax Haven Legislation for Australia and New Zealand: International Comparative Studies and Reform”, aims to illustrate, by way of case studies, a critical analysis of the appropriateness or the consequence of anti tax haven legislation in Australia and New Zealand that curbs such offshore tax avoidance schemes. Furthermore, similar legislation in the US, the UK, and some of the EU countries, is comparatively analyzed in order to develop recommendations for reform of the relevant anti tax haven measures in the Australian and New Zealand tax laws. This research also entails a study of some of the popular schemes that are adopted by residents for investing offshore using tax haven and low tax jurisdictions so as to avoid or defer taxes. In order to achieve these objectives, this study involved interviewing CFOs of large corporates and high net worth individuals to enquire as to how and why tax haven or low tax jurisdictions were being included in their offshore investment structures. It also involved interviews with tax authorities in Australia and New Zealand to enquire how they responded to tax havens activities by their tax residents.

As part of my PhD research, I have interviewed two chairs of publicly-listed companies in Hong Kong and a tax barrister specializing in international tax planning and tax haven structures. They all agreed that tax haven activities could not be stopped and would continue to flourish despite all the international initiatives against them. They revealed their concerns over the inequitable taxing regimes on offshore income as compared to onshore income.

Since tax haven abuse is an international problem, the effectiveness of the work of some international organizations in counteracting tax haven abuse of countries’ tax bases is also examined. The ultimate goal of this study is to contribute to reform that leads to a comprehensive review of anti tax haven legislation for Australia and New Zealand.

This paper proposes a move away from the legal principle of “One Law for All”[1] in tax laws, with a new doctrine of Earning Hardship Taxation recommended to be introduced in domestic tax systems.


Suggested Citation:

Chak, Clement, The Doctrine of Earnings Hardship Taxation (January 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4019768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4019768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
915,095
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies