Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vice and Virtue Behaviors Disentangling Substitution and Direct Effects of the Price of Giving1

33 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2022

Alex Cornish

The University of Sydney

Stephanie Heger

University of Bologna

Abstract

We examine how the U.S. tax policy that encourages charitable giving also affects seemingly unrelated virtue and vice behaviors: exercise and smoking. Using the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, we calculate tax liabilities for 16,712 individuals over 5 waves from which we can construct the price of giving to charity. We estimate the structural model of joint consumption developed by DiNardo and Lemieux (1992, 2001) to disentangle how changes in the price of giving affects exercise and smoking through two distinct channels: (1) an indirect effect through classical substitution effects and (2) a direct effect of the price of giving on the implicit price of exercise and smoking. Contrary to reduced form results which confound these two effects, we find that charitable giving and exercise are substitutes, but that the negative direct effect of the price of giving on exercise dominates. Similarly, charitable giving and smoking are also substitutes, but there is no significant direct effect of the price of giving on smoking behavior. Our results demonstrate the breadth of the effects of tax policy on charitable giving and suggest how policy may be more efficiently designed to increase virtuous behaviors.

Keywords: charitable giving, Health, moral balancing, substitution effects, Prosociality, tax policy

Suggested Citation:

Cornish, Alex and Heger, Stephanie, Vice and Virtue Behaviors Disentangling Substitution and Direct Effects of the Price of Giving1. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4022974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4022974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies