Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Tax Havens and Offshore Financial Centers Cracked Down On? An Examination of the International Standard of Exchange of Information on Request

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022

Yijun Li

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE); Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

To “crack down” on tax havens and offshore financial centers, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has promoted an internationally agreed tax standard of exchange of information on request since 2009. Using a difference-in-differences analysis, we find that the implementation of the standard significantly reduces aggressive tax avoidance by affected U.S. multinational firms with material subsidiaries in tax havens and other offshore financial centers. The effects are stronger when firms have more incentives and opportunities for income-shifting or when tax enforcement is stronger. Overall, our study helps the OECD and other regulators better understand the effect of the internationally agreed standard on corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance, Tax Havens, Exchange of Information on Request, Offshore Financial Centers, U.S. Multinational Firms

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yijun and Ma, Mark (Shuai), Are Tax Havens and Offshore Financial Centers Cracked Down On? An Examination of the International Standard of Exchange of Information on Request (February 1, 2022). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4023472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,785
RANK
129,714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies