Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Going Cashless Make You Tax-Rich? Evidence from India's Demonetization Experiment

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16891

40 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2022

Satadru Das

Government of India - Reserve Bank of India

Lucie Gadenne

University of Warwick

Tushar K. Nandi

National Council of Applied Economic Research

Ross Warwick

Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: January 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of electronic payments technology on firms' tax compliance in a large developing economy. We consider India's demonetization policy which, by limiting the availability of cash, led to a large increase in the use of electronic forms of payments. Using administrative data on firms' tax returns and variation in the strength of the demonetization shock across local areas, we find that greater use of electronic payments leads to firms reporting more sales to the tax authorities. This effect is strong enough to explain roughly half of the large (11 %) increase in reported sales observed during demonetization.

Keywords: Demonetization, electronic payments, tax compliance

JEL Classification: H25, H26, O23

Suggested Citation:

Das, Satadru and Gadenne, Lucie and Nandi, Tushar K. and Warwick, Ross, Does Going Cashless Make You Tax-Rich? Evidence from India's Demonetization Experiment (January 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16891, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026778
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies