Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Much to Pay for Tax Certainty? The Role of Advance Tax Rulings for Risky Investment under Loss Offset and Tax Uncertainty

40 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 19 Aug 2025

An Chen

Ulm University - Institute of Insurance Science

Peter Hieber

Université de Lausanne

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 19, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the impact of tax certainty through advance tax rulings (ATRs) on firms' risky investments under cash flow and tax uncertainty. Both firms and governments have expressed growing concern about increasing tax uncertainty, due to frequent tax reforms and the difficulty in applying ambiguous tax laws and anticipating audit outcomes. One remedy is the provision of ATRs, which offer upfront clarification of tax issues to reduce tax uncertainty and increase risk-taking. We analyze how these uncertainties, along with different tax rates, loss offset provisions, and ATR fees affect investment strategies. Our results suggest, first, that ATRs encourage riskier investments, particularly in tax regimes with generous loss offsets. We identify optimal ranges of ATR fees that benefit firms and tax authorities. Second, we show that it may be beneficial to design ATRs with a low or negative fee. Third, our study reveals a U-shaped relationship between firms' risk aversion and their willingness to pay for tax certainty, with willingness being higher for firms at low or high levels of risk aversion. In contrast, moderately risk-averse firms are only willing to accept low fees. Overall, our results highlight the importance of low-cost tax certainty combined with generous loss offset provisions to encourage risky investments.

Keywords: tax uncertainty, advance tax ruling, cash flow uncertainty, loss offset, optimal investment, willingness to pay

JEL Classification: G11, H25, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, An and Hieber, Peter and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, How Much to Pay for Tax Certainty? The Role of Advance Tax Rulings for Risky Investment under Loss Offset and Tax Uncertainty (August 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4027790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,122
RANK
487,221
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies