Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust or Power: Improving Tax Compliance by Self-Employed Professionals

Daisy Ogembo, 'Trust or Power: Improving Tax Compliance by Self-Employed Professionals', (2022), 50, Intertax, Issue 2, pp. 113-125. Reprinted from (2022), 50, Intertax, Issue 2, pp. 113-125, with permission of Kluwer Law International

13 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2024

Daisy Ogembo

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

This article considers non-compliance with tax legislation by self-employed professionals, using qualitative data on the tax compliance attitudes of lawyers and dentists in Kenya. The main argument is that corruption and inadequate service delivery, over which the revenue authority has no control, lower tax morale and limit the effectiveness of trust in the authority in increasing voluntary compliance. It is further argued that, under such circumstances, stringent detection and enforcement measures would be more helpful in enhancing these taxpayers’ compliance. This research contributes to the literature on the slippery slope framework on trust and power; most of the empirical work on the framework derives from countries with lower levels of corruption and better public service delivery than most African countries. Thus, this article enhances the understanding of the relationship between trust and power in the context of tax compliance among professionals in Kenya and provides some beneficial insight that may be relevant for other African countries

Reprinted from (2022), 50, Intertax, Issue 2, pp. 113-125, with permission of Kluwer Law International

Keywords: Tax evasion, trust, power, corruption, tax administration, audits, cooperative compliance, slippery slope framework, Kenya, Africa

Suggested Citation:

Ogembo, Daisy, Trust or Power: Improving Tax Compliance by Self-Employed Professionals (February 1, 2022). Daisy Ogembo, 'Trust or Power: Improving Tax Compliance by Self-Employed Professionals', (2022), 50, Intertax, Issue 2, pp. 113-125. Reprinted from (2022), 50, Intertax, Issue 2, pp. 113-125, with permission of Kluwer Law International, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Ke
Law Society of Kenya v. Minister for Finance & two others Civil Appeal Posted: 2006
Hoelzl & Kirchler , Wahl
, volume 8
Ibid
Ibid
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
411
RANK
627,303
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies