Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Apple v. European Commission: Losing the War on Corporate International Transfer Pricing

Loyola of Los Angeles International and Comparative Law Review [Feb 2022]

19 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

Geoffrey Dietrich

Cantley Dietrich LLC

Date Written: February 6, 2022

Abstract

For the last several years, Apple has been defending tax strategies utilized in Ireland before the European Union (EU) General Court. The European Commission, using Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, argues that Ireland provides state aid to Apple regarding several tax rulings, and that Apple owes a substantial tax liability. Although Apple was able to secure a favorable ruling before the EU General Court, the European Commission has appealed the General Court’s decision, and the final resolution to this case could be several years away.

The outcome of this case has the potential to cause changes to the corporate tax structure within the EU and could either strengthen or weaken the Commission’s success in challenging the lack of arm’s length principles in transfer pricing methods through state aid concerns. If the European Commission is unsuccessful in this case, there may be a push for the EU to harmonize the corporate tax system in the hopes of limiting corporations’ ability to reduce tax liabilities by shifting profits between countries in the EU. Additionally, harmonizing the corporate tax laws would allow for the European Commission to challenge these transfer pricing methods under a different theory of law, and would not allow certain countries to offer very favorable corporate tax treatment. Further, there is the possibility the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may look into similar transactions made by other countries based on the tax strategies used by Apple in Ireland.


Keywords: transfer pricing, taxation, apple, international

Suggested Citation:

Cantley, Beckett and Dietrich, Geoffrey, Apple v. European Commission: Losing the War on Corporate International Transfer Pricing (February 6, 2022). Loyola of Los Angeles International and Comparative Law Review [Feb 2022], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
RANK
254,521
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies