Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where Do My Tax Dollars Go? Tax Morale Effects of Perceived Government Spending

178 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022 Last revised: 5 Nov 2024

Matias Giaccobasso

VATT Institute for Economic Research

Brad Nathan

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Ricardo Perez-Truglia

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Alejandro Zentner

The University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

Do perceptions about government spending affect willingness to pay taxes? We test this hypothesis with a natural field experiment that focuses on the allocation of property taxes to public schools. Our results show that taxpayers often misperceive the destination of their tax dollars. By introducing shocks to households’ perceptions via an information-provision experiment, we find that perceptions of how tax dollars are used significantly affect the probability of filing a tax appeal. Moreover, the effects are consistent with reciprocal motivations: individuals are more willing to pay taxes if they believe that the government services funded by those taxes will provide greater personal benefit.

Keywords: taxes, protest, public services, education, redistribution

JEL Classification: C93, H26, I22, K34, K42, Z13

Suggested Citation:

Giaccobasso, Matias and Nathan, Brad and Perez-Truglia, Ricardo and Zentner, Alejandro, Where Do My Tax Dollars Go? Tax Morale Effects of Perceived Government Spending (February 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4035145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
449,075
5 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies