Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Car Registration Taxes Across EU Countries, MNEs’ Profitability and the Role of Market Concentration

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-04

47 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2022 Last revised: 12 Sep 2022

Pranvera Shehaj

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Martin Zagler

- Facoltà di Economia; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

This paper discusses the effects of one-off car registration taxes (CRT) and market concentration level on the profitability of multinational enterprises (MNEs) operating in the European Union car industry. Our simple theoretical framework shows that firm’s profits depend on the demand function and therefore on taxes applied to prices. We overcome empirically the challenges of making informative theoretical predictions on the pass-through rate under imperfect competition. We find that car registration taxes, - both as ad valorem taxes and as specific taxes, - have a significant negative effect on MNEs’ profitability. Our findings show a statistically significant positive effect of market concentration on profitability. Finally, our results suggest that the degree of competitiveness in the car market moderates the effect of car registration taxes on firm profitability only in EU countries where the CRT is an ad valorem tax, with the negative effect of the ad valorem CRT becoming higher as the car market becomes less competitive.

Keywords: car registration tax (CRT), market concentration, tax incidence, profitability, multinational enterprises, EU car industry

JEL Classification: H22, L11, L12, L13, L62

Suggested Citation:

Shehaj, Pranvera and Zagler, Martin, Car Registration Taxes Across EU Countries, MNEs’ Profitability and the Role of Market Concentration (August 18, 2022). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4038415 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4038415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies