Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big Short (Interest): Closing the Loopholes in the Dividend-Withholding Tax

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 76

66 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2022 Last revised: 16 Aug 2023

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Evelina Gavrilova

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

David Murphy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Floris Zoutman

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

We study the effect of stricter enforcement of the dividend-withholding tax (DWT). We focus on a 2016 Danish enforcement reform and compare Denmark to its Nordic neighbors. Throughout Nordic stock markets, shares on loan spike sharply around dividend dates. These spikes are consistent with so-called cum-cum and cum-ex trading. Post reform, spikes in Denmark disappear, and annual DWT revenue increases by 130 percent. Enforcement does not harm the investment climate, as measured by Danish stock returns, investment rate, and dividend yield.

Keywords: Tax Enforcement, Security Lending, Dividend Tax, Economic Effects

JEL Classification: K22, H26, G18, F23, M21

Suggested Citation:

Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Gavrilova, Evelina and Murphy, David and Zoutman, Floris, The Big Short (Interest): Closing the Loopholes in the Dividend-Withholding Tax (August 15, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4039744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4039744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
89,895
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies