Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax induced transfer pricing under universal adoption of the destination-based cash-flow tax

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/8

22 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2022

Thomas A. Gresik

University of Notre Dame - Department of Economics

Guttorm Schjelderup

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 22, 2022

Abstract

The view that the transfer pricing problem vanishes under universal destination-based cash flow taxation (DBCFT) is based on how firms behave in perfectly competitive markets. We show that the neutralizing effect DBCFT has on transfer price incentives fails once multinational firms are multi-market oligopolists. Under imperfect competition, a multinational will delegate output decisions to its affiliates. The transfer price then takes on a strategic role because it influences competitors’ actions. Even if all countries adopt DBCFT, transfer prices will not equal arm’s length prices, and the global efficiency implications attributed to DBCFT are lost.

Keywords: Destination-based cash-flow tax, transfer pricing, managerial delegation

JEL Classification: F23, G32, H21, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Gresik, Thomas A. and Schjelderup, Guttorm, Tax induced transfer pricing under universal adoption of the destination-based cash-flow tax (February 22, 2022). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2022/8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4040724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
427,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies