Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Beach: Tax Competition along the Italian Coasts

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-06

17 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2022 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

Chiara Cavallero

Trento University; Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Martin Zagler

- Facoltà di Economia; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Space: the final frontier. This paper seeks to understand the spatial dimension of tax competition. We provide two novel contributions to the literature on tax competition. First, we present a spatial model of tax competition, which is an adoption of the Hotelling model of imperfect competition in the linear city. We find that tax rates are strategic complementarities, as a change in taxes of one town will lead to a similar change of tax rates in neighboring towns. Second, we test the model with data from tourism taxes along the Italian coastline. We find that towns on the Thyrennian coast reduce their tax rates in order to attract tourists and additional tax base. We do not find a similar effect on the Adriatic coast, but we still see a reaction of tax rates, pointing to yardstick competition.

Keywords: Hotelling tax competition, Spatial econometrics

JEL Classification: H20, H71, H73

Suggested Citation:

Cavallero, Chiara and Zagler, Martin, The Beach: Tax Competition along the Italian Coasts (February 1, 2022). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4041417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
456,685
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies