Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big Short (Interest): Closing the Loopholes in the Dividend-Withholding Tax

CESifo Working Paper No. 9594

57 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2022

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Evelina Gavrilova

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

David Joseph Murphy

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Floris Zoutman

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We study the effect of stricter enforcement of the dividend-withholding tax (DWT). We focus on a 2016 Danish reform and compare Denmark to its Nordic neighbors. Firms in all countries exhibit strong spikes in stocks on loan around dividend dates. These spikes comprise several percent of the public float. The spikes are consistent with the most popular DWT arbitrage transactions. Postreform, spikes in Denmark disappear. Stricter enforcement results in an approximately 130 percent increase in annual DWT revenue. Stricter enforcement does not negatively affect the investment climate as measured through Danish stock returns, investment and dividend yield. Studying other European reforms, we find that the 2016-reform in Germany was similarly able to eliminate spikes in security lending.

Keywords: dividend tax arbitrage, tax enforcement, financial innovation, welfare analysis

JEL Classification: H250, H260, O160, F380

Suggested Citation:

Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Gavrilova, Evelina and Murphy, David Joseph and Zoutman, Floris, The Big Short (Interest): Closing the Loopholes in the Dividend-Withholding Tax (2022). CESifo Working Paper No. 9594, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4043318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4043318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
882
RANK
89,895
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies