Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Commodity Taxation Under Non-linear Income Taxation

Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-018/VI

19 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Kevin Spiritus

KU Leuven; Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: February 21, 2022

Abstract

I characterize the optimal linear commodity taxes when households differ in multiple characteristics, in presence of an optimal non-linear tax schedule on the households' labour incomes. The optimal distortions caused by a linear commodity tax are larger if, conditional on labour income, more deserving individuals consume more of that commodity. This is the case for merit goods, or if the government otherwise seeks to compensate individuals who consume larger quantities of that commodity. Furthermore, the government wishes to tax commodities at different rates to the extent that doing so reduces the distortions caused by the labour income tax. This is the case when individuals with different incomes have different preferences, or when individuals who supply different quantities of labour have different consumption patterns. I extend these findings to the case where households earn multiple incomes.

Keywords: optimal commodity taxation, multidimensional taxation

JEL Classification: H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Spiritus, Kevin and Spiritus, Kevin, Optimal Commodity Taxation Under Non-linear Income Taxation (February 21, 2022). Tinbergen Institute Discussion Paper 2022-018/VI, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4045023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies