Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tackling Tax Avoidance in the UK and Singapore

Zhan Peng Hng, 'Tackling Tax Avoidance in the UK and Singapore' [2021] Singapore Comparative Law Review 134

11 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Zhan Hng

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Law School

Date Written: February 27, 2022

Abstract

This article discusses the development and the operation of the anti-avoidance regimes employed in the UK and Singapore, and argues that reform is needed in Singapore to penalise intermediaries (i.e., tax advisors and lawyers) who design, promote and implement defeated tax avoidance schemes entered by their clients, and also a new statutory duty be imposed on specific persons to disclose tax avoidance schemes entered by them. The author accepts that tax avoidance is a cat and mouse game. As long as there are mice, the cat must remain vigilant.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Hng, Zhan, Tackling Tax Avoidance in the UK and Singapore (February 27, 2022). Zhan Peng Hng, 'Tackling Tax Avoidance in the UK and Singapore' [2021] Singapore Comparative Law Review 134, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
RANK
327,319
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies