Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do local tax preparers strengthen the influence of tax policy on individual behavior?

50 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Stephanie Walton

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 2, 2022

Abstract

One function of the tax code is to implement social policy, incentivizing members of the public to make decisions policymakers believe to be desirable. But the tax code is complex and acquiring and processing complex information is costly. In this study, we hypothesize that tax preparers serve as information intermediaries between policymakers and taxpayers, reducing information frictions in the implementation of tax-based social policy. Using data on individual-tax returns at the zip code level, we first show that taxpayers made earlier use of new tax credits introduced by the Energy Tax Incentives Act of 2005 in places with more tax preparers. We then show that state-level sales of ENERGY STAR certified air conditioners increased particularly quickly in states with the most tax preparers. Finally, we show that usage of the earned income tax credit, the third largest entitlement program in the U.S., is also positively associated with tax preparer concentration.

Keywords: tax preparers, information intermediaries, tax-based social policy, local information transfer, tax expenditures, Energy Tax Incentives Act of 2005, earned income tax credit

JEL Classification: M48, R23, H23, H24, I38

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Paul E. and Walton, Stephanie, Do local tax preparers strengthen the influence of tax policy on individual behavior? (March 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4048449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4048449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Agrawal , D Kapur , J Mchale
How do special and social proximity influence knowledge flows? Evidence from patent data
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 258 - 269 Posted: 2008
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
J Alm , S Dickert-Conlin , L A Whittington
Policy watch: The marriage penalty
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 193 - 204 Posted: 1999
J Alm , B Torgler
Estimating the determinants of tax morale
Proceedings: Annual Conference on Taxation and Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the National Tax Association , volume 97 , p. 269 - 274 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
RANK
446,627
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies