Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Income Tax E-filing: A Combined Theoretical Model Approach in Bangladesh

The Cost and Management, Volume-49, Number-06, November-December 2021

20 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2022 Last revised: 24 Apr 2022

Dr Kazi Abdul Mannan

Southern Cross University, Australia; Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology

Khandaker Mursheda Farhana

Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology

G.M. Omar Faruque Chowdhury

Elite Paint & Chemical Industries Ltd

Date Written: December 7, 2021

Abstract

E-filing of income tax return can be seen as an important means to enhance the value of services to the citizen. This paper investigates whether tax knowledge influences the level of intention of individual taxpayers to use E-filing after five years of its implementation in Bangladesh. The study examines factors that might influence taxpayers’ level of intention for E-filing based upon the theoretical framework of combined models and the concept of general knowledge about tax. The survey was conducted on 384 respondents’ individual taxpayers within the capital city of Dhaka in 2020. It shows that respondents have a high level of intention for E-filing (4.67 out of 5). Advanced statistical outputs show that perceived advantages, perceived comfortable to use and perceived subjective norms are positively associated, but perception on behavioral control and general knowledge about tax are not significantly associated with taxpayers’ intention for E-filing. The results from this study suggest that E-filing is a computerized system, just like any other system, where taxpayers’ intention to use it is also influenced by constructs within the technology acceptance model and the theory of planned behavior approach. Furthermore, the implementation of E-filing will be successful when it can provide a compulsory service delivery channel through the electronic platform. Since the National Board of Revenue (NBR) is currently promoting the use of E-filing, the results may assist the NBR to plan a more effective strategy of promoting E-filing usage among individual taxpayers in Bangladesh.

Keywords: Taxation, taxpayers, E-filing, E-government, digitization, knowledge, behavior, intention

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H21, H22, H23, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Mannan, Kazi Abdul and Farhana, Khandaker Mursheda and Chowdhury, G.M. Omar Faruque, Factors Influencing Income Tax E-filing: A Combined Theoretical Model Approach in Bangladesh (December 7, 2021). The Cost and Management, Volume-49, Number-06, November-December 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4051213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4051213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A R Abdul-Latiff , B A Amin-Nordin , M R Che-Omar , D A Harijito
Tax literacy rate among taxpayers: Evidence from Malaysia , volume 9 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2005
R Agarwal , J Prasad
Are individual differences germane to the acceptance of new information technologies? Decision Sciences , volume 30 , p. 361 - 391 Posted: 1999
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Social Programs as positive inducements for tax participation
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 96 Posted: 2012
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
638
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,750
RANK
95,379
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies