Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistling in the Dark? Equity Market Reactions to Digital Service Tax Proposals

32 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Estrella Gomez-Herrera

Joint Research Center of the European Commission; University of Balearic Islands

Carlo Reggiani

The University of Manchester

Yevgeniya Shevtsova

European Commission, Joint Research Centre

Date Written: January 16, 2022

Abstract

The taxation regime to which online multinational platforms are subject to has been the centre of a fierce debate in recent years. Whereas international consensus has yet to be reached, different countries have taken unilateral action by enacting versions of a "Digital Service Tax". We conduct a financial event study to provide a first evaluation of the impact of these proposed taxes and the recent Global Tax proposal on dominant online platforms and other market stakeholders. Most initiatives had little and not significant impact on digital firms. At the same time, we identify a negative and significant impact of the initial European Commission-OECD digital tax proposal, driven mainly by the GAFAM equity returns.

Keywords: digital tax, multinational firms, digital platforms, event study, online advertising, e-commerce

JEL Classification: L86, H25, M37, F23

Suggested Citation:

Gomez-Herrera, Estrella and Reggiani, Carlo and Shevtsova, Yevgeniya, Whistling in the Dark? Equity Market Reactions to Digital Service Tax Proposals (January 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4055553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4055553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , T Mitton
The value of connections in turbulent times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 368 - 391 Posted: 2016
D R Agrawal
The internet as a tax haven?
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2021
M Amiti , S H Kong , D Weinstein
The effect of the Us-China trade war on US investment. NBER Working Paper Posted: 2020
E Asen , D Bunn
What European OECD countries are doing about Digital Services Taxes Posted: 2021-01-16
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
RANK
325,828
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies