Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Business Tax Literacy of Australian Small Businesses

(2022) Australian Tax Forum, 37(1) : 65 – 103

6 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: March 16, 2022

Abstract

Having a basic understanding of the tax system would seem to be part of the knowledge base required for those wishing to run a small business, as owners are likely to be key decision-makers. However, our understanding of the level of tax literacy for Australian small businesses is scant. This article reports the findings of a survey seeking to measure the tax literacy of Australian small business owners in the largest part of the Australian economy, the service sector. The findings suggest that a majority of the businesses surveyed have a business tax literacy level of poor or low, which brings into question their ability to meet and budget for their tax obligations.

The attached PDF file contains an excerpt of the full text of the paper

Keywords: tax literacy, small business, Australia, service sector

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, The Business Tax Literacy of Australian Small Businesses (March 16, 2022). (2022) Australian Tax Forum, 37(1) : 65 – 103, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4058753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
661
RANK
538,270
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies