Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compliance Dilemma of the Global Minimum Tax

20 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2022

jean hindriks

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yukihiro Nishimura

The University of Osaka

Abstract

To tackle profit shifting, the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework proposes a Global Minimum Tax that requires that if a multinational enterprise (MNE) declares its operations in a jurisdiction taxing less than the global minimum tax, the countries where the real economic activity takes place would have the right to tax the difference. The general presumption is that (unconstrained) high-tax countries will gain and low-tax countries will lose because the constrained taxes will reduce their inward profit shifting. The purpose of this paper is to show, by means of a formal model of international tax competition with heterogeneous countries, that the consequences of the global minimum tax can be just the opposite. The key feature of our analysis is that the minimum tax will change the dynamics of tax competition together with the enforcement incentives. We show that in this broader framework, the low-tax country always gain and that there exists a critical threshold for the minimum tax beyond which enforcement cooperation will break down making the high-tax country worse off with minimum tax. The minimum tax threshold is decreasing in the extent of the tax asymmetry. We call this new effect the compliance dilemma.

Keywords: Profit shifting, Tax competition, Tax enforcement

Suggested Citation:

hindriks, jean and Yukihiro, Nishimura, The Compliance Dilemma of the Global Minimum Tax. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4065252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4065252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
871
RANK
241,038
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies