Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mist Over a Meadow: Tax Designation Effects on Compliance

CERGE-EI Working Paper Series No. 725

43 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Lubomír Cingl

University of Economics, Prague

Tomas Lichard

Charles University in Prague - CERGE-EI, a joint workplace of Charles University and the Economics Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences; Prague University of Economics and Business

Tomáš Miklánek

Prague University of Economics and Business

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

Tax designation has been a popular attribute of the tax plans in a rising number of countries, yet evidence of its effects on tax compliance remains scarce. We conduct an online experiment with 830 Czech taxpayers who are self-employed or regular employees. Our approach mimics the actual tax designation mechanism: it allows subjects to express their preferences for how a part of their taxes is used by redirecting some of the money to a non-governmental organization (NGO). We exogenously vary the presence of the tax designation mechanism, the possibility to choose the recipient NGO from a list, the tax rate, and the use of tax revenues. We find no consistent significant effects of the tax designation mechanism on overall compliance, though for employees, we do find a small effect on the probability of them being fully compliant. This result complements previous findings of experiments with students, who, like employees, also do not personally file their tax returns. Our results imply that the tax designation mechanism does not encourage higher compliance among taxpayers with the greatest opportunities for tax evasion.

Keywords: tax-enforcement, tax compliance, online tax experiment, tax designation

JEL Classification: C91, C93, D02

Suggested Citation:

Cingl, Lubomír and Lichard, Tomas and Miklánek, Tomáš, Mist Over a Meadow: Tax Designation Effects on Compliance (March 1, 2022). CERGE-EI Working Paper Series No. 725, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
L Abbiati , A Antinyan , L Corazzini
Are taxes beautiful? A survey experiment on information, tax choice and perceived adequacy of the tax burden (Discussion Paper Posted: 2014
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
What motivates tax compliance
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
J Alm , K M Bloomquist , M Mckee
On the external validity of laboratory tax compliance experiments
Economic Inquiry , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 1170 - 1186 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
512
RANK
785,592
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies