Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Electronic Tax Administration System on Taxpayers’ Voluntary Compliance in Tanzania

14 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

James Chindengwike

St. John's University of Tanzania

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

The objective of this study was to examine the influence of electronic tax administration system on taxpayers’ voluntary compliance in Tanzania. To attain this objective qualitative and quantitative research approaches were used whereby survey research design techniques of data compilation method were used. Both primary data and secondary data were involved in the form of interviews, document reviews and survey. Systematic and unsystematic random sampling and purposive sampling was used as sampling procedures in the study, this study involved with the sample size of 99 respondents from SMEs‘taxpayer in Dodoma Regions. The findings of the study showed that there is influence of electronic tax administration system on taxpayers’ voluntary compliance with P-value 0.002; Indicating the presence of the good electronic tax administration improve taxpayers' voluntary compliance while absence electronic tax administration system led to taxpayers’ poor voluntary tax compliance .The study recommended that the cost of electronic devices to be barred by tax authorities and the outsourced companies undertaking the devices’, repair and maintenance should offer affordable rates to SMEs taxpayers.

Keywords: electronic tax system, tax compliance, tax laws, taxpayers, Tanzania

Suggested Citation:

Chindengwike, James, The Influence of Electronic Tax Administration System on Taxpayers’ Voluntary Compliance in Tanzania (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J Agatha
Assessing Factors Hindering Taxpayers on the Use of Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFDs) In Tanzania (Doctoral thesis) Posted: 2018
A A C Azmi , Y Kamarulzaman
Adoption of Tax E-Filing: A Conceptual Paper
African Journal of Business Management , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 599 - 603 Posted: 2010
J Brun , M Diakite
Tax Potential and Tax Effort : An Empirical Estimation for Non-Resource Tax Revenue and VAT ' s Revenue To Cite this Version : HAL Posted: 2016
P Casey , P Castro
Electronic Fiscal Devices (EFDs) An Empirical Study of Their Impact on Taxpayer Compliance and Administrative Efficiency Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
654
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,711
RANK
92,390
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies