Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the Property Tax System in Romania: A Necessity

Revista de Științe Politice. Revue des Sciences Politiques, No. 73: 99 - 113 (2022)

13 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2022 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Narcis Eduard Mitu

University of Craiova

George Teodor Mitu

University of Craiova, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: April 6, 2022

Abstract

Purpose and need for study: Given the enormous need for financial resources of local communities, imposed by the growing and diverse needs of citizens, our study aims at a holistic analysis of the need to reform the property tax system in Romania, as the main source of tax revenue available to the local public administration. If the strengthening of democracy means the strengthening of local autonomy, then it means that we must create a system of financing local authorities that is efficient, fair and directed to the real needs and capabilities of the citizen.

Methodology: In developing the study we used a methodology of multidimensional comparative analysis, both domestic tax performance and the alignment of legal provisions and objectives assumed by government policies, with the real possibilities of reforming the property tax system. Every time a tax reform is proposed, there must be certain elements or steps to follow, which are recommended for its success and implementation. A fiscal reform consists, by definition, in modifying the structure of one or more taxes or the tax system, in order to improve its functioning to achieve the assumed objectives.

Findings: It is important to make a very good diagnosis of the current property tax system including, in particular, the various issues related to the tax base, fiscal facilities, digitization and the need for energy efficiency and the elimination of pollutant emissions. A tax reform must contain a description of the proposed ideal system, i.e. what is intended to be done and the direction of the changes that are intended to be adopted. Any tax reform that a country intends to undertake should, today more than ever, consider simplifying tax legislation and procedures, incorporating also issues related to digitization and many other issues and phenomena resulting from studies carried out by experts in the field, both in the public and in the private sector.

Practical Implications: Carrying out a tax reform involves analysing multiple variables, which vary depending on the national or local specific. Our study aims to be a basis of analysis and a potential foundation for the reconstruction of the property tax system in Romania.

Keywords: property tax system, decentralization, digitalization, tax reform, financial resources, local communities

JEL Classification: H21, H3, H71

Suggested Citation:

Mitu, Narcis Eduard and Mitu, George Teodor, Reforming the Property Tax System in Romania: A Necessity (April 6, 2022). Revista de Științe Politice. Revue des Sciences Politiques, No. 73: 99 - 113 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4077171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
I Alexandru
Posted: 2008
A Balan
Tax Incentives As a Tool To Boost Investment , volume 1 , p. 48 - 53 Posted: 2018
C Ban , A Rusu
Pauperitatea fiscală a României -Ce o explică și ce se (mai) poate face, Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Posted: 2019
S Bastani , D Waldenström
How Capital Be Taxed
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , p. 812 - 846 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies