Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Strategy-Related Words, Firm’s Ability, and Tax Avoidance

61 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Yicheng Wang

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)-School of Intelligent Finance and Business

Date Written: April 8, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, I construct a tax-strategy-related (TSR) word list to investigate the linguistic cues of tax avoidance in 10-Ks. I use TSR words to measure a firm’s innate ability to avoid taxes and find a positive relationship between this ability and the level of tax avoidance. I use three tests to validate this pattern. First, I find that the TSR words have explanatory power on multiple traditional tax avoidance measures after a battery of robustness checks. Second, I introduce a method to identify the extreme values in tax avoidance measures and examine the pattern with extreme values. The results still hold. Third, I collect the tax shelter firms to check whether this pattern survives in the most aggressive cases. Interestingly, the pattern turns to be the opposite. I interpret this result as indicating that these firms try to conceal their abilities of tax avoidance to avoid being captured by tax authorities. In an additional analysis, I find that investors negatively value the disclosure of TSR words in well-governed and less tax-avoiding firms.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, tax strategy, firm’s ability, disclosure

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yicheng, Tax-Strategy-Related Words, Firm’s Ability, and Tax Avoidance (April 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4078327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
627
RANK
456,685
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies