Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Avoidance Impair Accounting Comparability?

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022 Last revised: 1 Aug 2023

Paul L Baker

University of Bath - School of Management

Peiwei Lyu

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of Bath, School of management

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: July 10, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between tax avoidance and accounting comparability. We argue that aggressive tax behavior impairs the comparability of financial statements by altering the accounting function, which maps economic events into accounting data. Using raw and industry-adjusted effective tax rates to proxy tax avoidance, we find that firms with more aggressive tax avoidance strategies have substantially lower accounting comparability. The evidence also shows that the negative effect of tax avoidance on accounting comparability is driven by firms with aggressive tax planning strategies beyond the industry norm. Furthermore, using an alternative measure of accounting comparability as a function of pre-tax income, we continue to find evidence of the negative effect of tax avoidance behavior. Importantly, this provides evidence that the effect of aggressive tax planning is not limited to the reported tax expense, but affects the comparability of the overall financial reporting system. Our results contribute to the literature on the costs of tax avoidance and on the determinants of accounting comparability.

Keywords: tax avoidance, accounting comparability

JEL Classification: H260, M400, M410

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Paul L and Lyu, Peiwei and Perotti, Pietro, Does Tax Avoidance Impair Accounting Comparability? (July 10, 2023). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4089626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Archer , P Delvaille , S Mcleay
The measurement of harmonisation and the comparability of financial statement items: Within-country and between-country effects
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 98 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 1995
A J Auerbach , J Slemrod
The economic effects of the Tax Reform Act of 1986
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 589 - 632 Posted: 1997
B C Ayers , J Jiang , S K Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
194,576
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies