Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Uncertainty and Tax Aggressiveness Among Brazilian Companies Listed on the B3

Marques, V. A., Zucolotto, A. de F., Guzzo Acerbe, L., & Zanoteli, E. J. . (2022). Economic uncertainty and tax aggressiveness among Brazilian companies listed on the B3. Journal of Education and Research in Accounting (REPeC), 16(1). https://doi.org/10.17524/repec.v16i1.2992

18 Pages Posted: 2 May 2022

Vagner Marques

Accounting Department - Federal University of Espírito Santo

Anderson Zucoloto

Federal University of Espírito Santo

Lorian Acerbi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eduardo Jose Zanoteli

Independent

Date Written: April 24, 2022

Abstract

Objective: This study aimed to analyze the association between an economically uncertain environment
and the level of tax aggressiveness among Brazilian firms listed on the B3. 

Gap: Unlike previous Brazilian literature, this study analyzes the effect of economic uncertainty and its
association with the level of tax aggressiveness among listed companies.

Method: This descriptive, documentary study with a quantitative approach addressed data from 2013 to 2018 of 252 companies listed on the B3 until December 31st, 2018. Descriptive statistics were used in addition to means difference tests and regression analysis with panel data. Data were collected from the COMDINHEIRO and IPEADATA websites and analyzed using Stata 16.

Results: The results show no positive association between tax aggressiveness and economic uncertainty; however, it moderates the effect of tax aggressiveness determinants. These results are robust for heteroscedasticity, autocorrelation, and different proxies for tax aggressiveness.

Implications: The results contribute to policymakers, regulators, auditors, and market analysts and suggest that tax burden has an indirect effect on adopting more aggressive tax planning, which might indicate tax evasion and/or future litigation.

Keywords: Tax Aggressiveness, Economic Uncertainty, Effective Tax Rate, Book Tax Differences

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Vagner and Zucoloto, Anderson and Acerbi, Lorian and Zanoteli, Eduardo Jose, Economic Uncertainty and Tax Aggressiveness Among Brazilian Companies Listed on the B3 (April 24, 2022). Marques, V. A., Zucolotto, A. de F., Guzzo Acerbe, L., & Zanoteli, E. J. . (2022). Economic uncertainty and tax aggressiveness among Brazilian companies listed on the B3. Journal of Education and Research in Accounting (REPeC), 16(1). https://doi.org/10.17524/repec.v16i1.2992, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4091753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
B H Baltagi
Econometrics Analysis of Panel Data (Third) Posted: 2005
N Billor , A S Hadi , P F Velleman
BACON: Blocked adaptive computationally efficient outlier nominators
Computational Statistics & Data Analysis , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 101 - 102 Posted: 2000
O G Cabello , C A Pereira
Efeitos das Práticas de Tributação do Lucro na Effective Tax Rate (ETR): Uma Abordagem da Teoria das Escolhas Contábeis , volume 8 , p. 356 - 373 Posted: 2015
V G Carvalho , Paulo De , E Tavares , A De , L
Gerenciamento Tributário: Proxies Utilizadas pelas Pesquisas no Período , volume 5 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
856,872
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies