Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Canada Revenue Agency: Evidence on Tax Auditors’ Incentives and Assessments

C.D. Howe Institute e-Brief 306

12 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Nick Pantaleo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 3, 2020

Abstract

The importance of Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) audits to the administration of the Canadian tax system is self-evident. So is the need for CRA to conduct high-quality audits. While audit outcomes are subject to appeals and court challenge, it is not desirable to rely frequently on appeals and the courts to ensure that the tax rules are fairly applied. In this paper, we explore incentives CRA faces, and some evidence on how CRA conducts audits, the time it takes CRA to conduct an audit, and the accuracy of CRA’s reporting of the results of their audit efforts. These aspects of the audit process matter. Building on the analysis in Klassen (2016), we note that incentives to increase assessments have been amplified by recent funding for the CRA that carries an expectation that additional tax revenues of $5 will be collected for each $1 spent, a “return” that is much higher than in the past. As well, these additional tax revenues are explicitly linked to the CRA’s measures of how much tax revenue theoretically exists versus how much is actually paid voluntarily (the tax gap). Practitioners express concerns over poor CRA audit-process quality. The duration of CRA audits, the very high proportion of reassessments that are issued in the final two months of its fiscal year, and the rate at which reassessments are eventually ruled in the taxpayer’s favour lend some evidence to these concerns. We recommend calibrating the performance of CRA compliance activities to reduce emphasis on fiscal impact (an incomplete measure of revenues collected), and that fiscal impact be adjusted for final taxpayer assessment amounts, which does not occur at present. CRA has developed a measure of overall compliance and confidence that taxes will voluntarily be paid called “validated risk,” which can offset incentives arising from the emphasis on fiscal impact, and we recommend that this metric’s use be expanded and emphasized.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy; Business and Capital Taxation

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Klassen, Kenneth and Pantaleo, Nick, Assessing the Canada Revenue Agency: Evidence on Tax Auditors’ Incentives and Assessments (September 3, 2020). C.D. Howe Institute e-Brief 306, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4091756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4091756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
N Abrary , M Munoz , N Pantaleo , D Powrie
CRA Audits of Large Corporations
Report of Proceedings of the Seventieth Tax Conference , volume 34 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2018
May Status Report of the Auditor General of Canada: Chapter 8-Canada Revenue Agency-Collection of Tax Debts Posted: 2006
Spring Report of the Auditor General of Canada Posted: 2014
Fall Reports of the Auditor General of Canada: Report 2-Income Tax Objections-Canada Revenue Agency Posted: 2016
Load more
7 Citations
Thorsten V. Koeppl , Jeremy Kronick
Open Banking in Canada – The Path to Implementation
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 579 · 24 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2022 · Downloads: 357
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Trevor Tombe , Daniel Schwanen
Alberta’s Opportunity: The Ins, Outs and Benefits of Greater Job Mobility
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 580 · 32 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2022 · Downloads: 54
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William B. P. Robson , Farah Omran
Busted Budgets: Canada’s Senior Governments Can’t Stick to Their Fiscal Plans
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 581 · 32 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2022 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Grant Bishop , Mariam Ragab , Blake Shaffer
The Price of Power: Comparative Electricity Costs across Provinces
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 582 · 64 Pages · Posted: 10 May 2022 · Downloads: 133
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
714
RANK
687,646
7 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies