Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Permanent and Transitory Responses to Capital Gains Taxes: Evidence from a Lifetime Exemption in Canada

91 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2022

Adam Lavecchia

McMaster University; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Alisa Tazhitdinova

University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB)

There are 5 versions of this paper

Abstract

Using panel data on a 20% random sample of Canadian taxpayers, we study behavioral responses to the cancellation of a lifetime capital gains exemption that resulted in increased capital gains taxation for some individuals. We show that the exemption did not change the number of taxpayers reporting positive capital gains, and thus unlikely resulted in increased participation in capital markets. Furthermore, our results suggest that the cancellation increased the long-run capital gains realizations of tax filers with more unused exemption room but had a small, statistically insignificant impact on the capital gains realizations of those with little unused exemption room.

Keywords: JEL Classification: H24, H31, G51 capital gains tax, real responses, avoidance, re-timing

Suggested Citation:

Lavecchia, Adam and Tazhitdinova, Alisa, Permanent and Transitory Responses to Capital Gains Taxes: Evidence from a Lifetime Exemption in Canada. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4092414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4092414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Agersnap References , Zidar
The Tax Elasticity of Capital Gains and Revenue-Maximizing Rates Posted: 2020
S Alan , K Atalay , T F Crossley , And S.-H Jeon
New evidence on taxes and portfolio choice
Journal of Public Economics , volume 94 , p. 813 - 823 Posted: 2010
New evidence on taxes and portfolio choice
Journal of Public Economics , volume 94 , p. 813 - 823 Posted: 2010
A J Auerbach , J Poterba
Capital Gains Taxation in the United States: Realizations, Revenue, and Rhetoric
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , p. 595 - 637 Posted: 1988
Load more
1 Citations
Alexandre Laurin , Nicholas Dahir
Uncertain Returns: The Impact of the Capital Gains Hike on Ottawa's Personal Income Tax Revenue
C.D. Howe Institute e-Brief 362 · 10 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies