Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Versus Individual Work Preferences: Implications for Optimal Income Taxation

IMF Working Paper No. 2022/062

28 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2022

Zhiyong An

International Monetary Fund

David P. Coady

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

The benchmark optimal income taxation model of Mirrlees (1971) finds that the optimal marginal income tax rate (MIT) is always non-negative. A key model assumption is the coincidence between social and individual work preferences. This paper extends the model to allow for differences in social and individual work preferences. The theoretical and simulation analyses show that under this model, when the government places a higher social weight on work than individuals, the optimal MIT schedule is shifted downwards, introducing the possibility for optimal wage subsidies at the bottom of the income distribution. This implies lower revenues, demogrants, and overall progressivity.

Keywords: Preference Differences, Optimal Income Taxation, Wage Subsidies, Progressivity, taxation model, preference difference, model of Mirrlees, income taxation, MIT schedule, Marginal effective tax rate, Income tax systems, Income, Labor supply, Employment subsidies

JEL Classification: D30, H20, E25, J20, J08, H21

Suggested Citation:

An, Zhiyong and Coady, David P., Social Versus Individual Work Preferences: Implications for Optimal Income Taxation (March 1, 2022). IMF Working Paper No. 2022/062, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4092612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Zhiyong An
On the Sufficiency of Using the Elasticity of Taxable Income to Calculate Deadweight Loss: The Implications of Charitable Giving and Warm Glow
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 1040 - 1047 Posted: 2015
Zhiyong An
When Preferences Differ: ETI Insufficient to Calculate DWL
Tax Notes , volume 155 , issue 6 , p. 825 - 827 Posted: 2017
Zhiyong An , Forthcoming
A Systematic Critique of Impossibility Theorems
Under Journal Peer Review
Anthony B Atkinson
On the Measurement of Inequality
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 244 - 263 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
RANK
872,691
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies