Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Informality Deter Tax Progressivity?

61 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2022

Enrico Rubolino

University of Lausanne

Abstract

In contexts with weak enforcement and widespread informality, the threat of tax evasion may constrain policy makers’ power to set tax policies optimally. This paper studies whether reducing informality by tackling tax evasion leads policy makers to increase statutory tax progressivity. I take advantage of an Italian policy that generated cross-municipality variation in the scope for tackling income and property tax evasion through stricter tax enforcement. Combining an event study design with municipality-level panel data on statutory tax rates, I show that the ability of the government to change the size of the informal sector tips the balance in favor of higher marginal tax rates for middle and top incomes, lower for the poor. The tax hike was larger in places with higher pre-program inequality and where intrinsic tax compliance attitudes were weaker. As a result of larger tax collections, municipalities hired more workers and raised public spending. These results suggest that policies enforcing legal rules and payment of taxes have not only the power to foster tax capacity, but also to enhance the ability to pursue redistributive policies.

Keywords: tax evasion, informality, tax enforcement, local taxes, tax progressivity.

Suggested Citation:

Rubolino, Enrico, Does Informality Deter Tax Progressivity?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4095809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4095809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
E Abounoori , P Mccloughan
A Simple Way to Calculate the Gini Coefficient for Grouped as well as Ungrouped Data
Applied Economics Letters , volume 10 , issue 8 Posted: 2003
D Acemoglu
Politics and Economics in Weak and Strong States
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 52 , issue 7 , p. 1199 - 1226 Posted: 2005
Agenzia Delle , Entrate
Regolarizzazione degli Immobili Fantasma. Comunicato Stampa Posted: 2012
Agenzia Delle , Entrate
L'Evoluzione Del Prelievo Sugli Immobili In Italia
Gli Immobili In Italia 2019 -Ricchezza Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
880,951
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies