Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retirement Income Tax Reform and Annuitization in Korea

22 Pages Posted: 5 May 2022

Wonku HONG

Korea Capital Market Institute (KCMI)

Date Written: January 13, 2022

Abstract

In the 2010s, the Korean government revised the Income Tax Act to increase the tax burden for retirement income paid in a lump sum. The reform gradually increased the tax from 2015 to 2020. In addition, if a plan member transfers retirement income to the individual retirement pension account to select annuity payment, the applicable tax would be reduced to 70% of that imposed on lump-sum withdrawals.

The reform primarily aimed to promote annuitization of retirement income, by driving up the tax burden for lump-sum withdrawals of retirement benefits (retirement annuity and severance pay). The tax policy for lump-sum payments was considerably generous, thanks to the previous severance pay scheme. The effective tax rate of around 3% was applied to most retirees who withdrew their retirement income in a lump sum. But the reform abandoned fixed-rate deductions that were applied regardless of the amount of retirement benefits and imposed a relatively higher tax rate on the annualized wages.

This article analyzed how the tax amount imposed on retirement income changed by referring to the statistical yearbook published by the National Tax Service. It was found that nearly 50% of the retirement income was transferred to the individual retirement pension account after the revised retirement income tax policy was fully implemented in 2016. The group of retirees being subject to higher effective tax rates held a larger proportion of deferred retirement income. As the years rolled by after the end of 2016, retirees tended to hold a larger proportion of deferred retirement income. Given the above, the first phase of annuitization has achieved some measure of success. However, the contributions accumulated in the retirement pension account, being similar in amount to the retirement income transferred annually to the retirement pension account, were withdrawn in any form other than annuity payments. This implies that once transferred to the retirement pension account, retirement income rarely stays long in the account.

More incentives should be offered to ensure that retirement benefits would be placed in the retirement pension account for a longer period and then be annuitized. One solution is to allow retirees to withdraw part of their retirement assets tax-free for emergency funds.

Keywords: Retirement IncomeTax, Annuitization

JEL Classification: G50, H24, J32

Suggested Citation:

HONG, Wonku, Retirement Income Tax Reform and Annuitization in Korea (January 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4096556 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4096556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Ⅲ-3> 퇴직소득 신고자와 퇴직소득액 자료: 국세청 <그림 Ⅲ-4> 퇴직소득 신고자의 퇴직소득과 근속연수 자료: 국세청 연도별 퇴직소득의 평균과 표준편차에서 볼 수 있듯이 퇴직소득 분포는 매우 <그림 , 불균등하다
21 이처럼 퇴직소득이 낮은 퇴직자의 비율이 높은 이유의 하나는 퇴직소 득 신고자의 근속연수가 낮기 때문인데, 2019년 신고자 중에서 5년 미만 근속자가 74%에 달하고 있다(<그림 Ⅲ-4 (b)> 참조)
이후 퇴직소득세액의 변화를 보면 퇴직소득 신고액의 증감에 따라 퇴직소득세액도 변화 하고 있다
퇴직소득 신고 대상세액은 2013년 1.12조원에서 2019년 1.75조원으로 증가하였다
이들의 퇴직소득의 금액 비중을 보면 평균 20%대에 머물고 있다
한편 인원 비중으로는 2.4%(2019년)인 1억원 이상자의 금 액 비중이 38.8%에 이르고 있다(국세청 통계연감)
평균 퇴직소득 신고액이 높았던 2015년은 퇴직소득 세액도 많았다 ; 이 연금계좌로 이체되기 때문에 신고 대상세액 중의 해당 부분도 당해 부과되지 않고 이연된다. 이연퇴직소득세도 2016년 이후 매년 증가 추세를 보이고 있다
신고 대상세액이 많았던 2015년의 이연퇴직소득세의 비중(37.8%)이 가장 낮았다. 연도별 실효세율을 보면 평균적으로는 큰 변화가 없다. 즉 2016년 이후 실효 퇴직소득세율이 완 만하게 증가하고 있다(<그림 Ⅲ-5 (b)> 참조). 그리고 이연퇴직소득세를 차감하면 매년 부담하 는 퇴직소득세율은 1.76~2.74%(= 신고소득세율-이연퇴직소득세율)의 범위에서 움직이고 있다. <그림 Ⅲ-5> 퇴직소득세와 퇴직소득세율 자료: 국세청 평균적으로 보면 실효 퇴직소득세율이 크게 변하지 않았다. 그러나 퇴직소득 규모별로 살펴보 면 세율이 증가하고 있으며, 고소득층의 실효세율이 급격히 높아지는 추세를 볼 수 있다
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
747,753
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies