Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Protection, Tax Planning, and Capital Investment: Evidence from Small-Sized Enterprises

12 Pages Posted: 2 May 2022

Antonio De Vito

Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of labor protection laws on tax planning and capital investment. Exploiting a major reform that introduced firing costs in Italy for firms with fewer than 15 employees but left firing costs unchanged for larger firms combined with matched employer-employee data, I show that the rise in firing costs led small firms to increase tax avoidance and capital investment relative to larger firms. Robustness and placebo tests suggest that the results are causal. Overall, the findings indicate that tax avoidance allows small firms to generate internal funds to substitute labor for capital when employment protection becomes stronger.

Keywords: labor protection, tax planning, tax avoidance, capital investment, small firms

Suggested Citation:

De Vito, Antonio, Labor Protection, Tax Planning, and Capital Investment: Evidence from Small-Sized Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4098835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
D H Autor , Iii Donohue , J J Schwab , S J
The costs of wrongful-discharge laws
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 88 , p. 211 - 231 Posted: 2006
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Financing patterns around the world: Are small firms different
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , p. 467 - 487 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
263
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies