Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Optimal Number of Tax Audits: Evidence from Italy

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 497

41 Pages Posted: 4 May 2022

Daniele Spinelli

Department of Statistics and Quantitative Methods University of Milano-Bicocca

Paolo Berta

University of Milano-Bicocca; University of Milan - Bicocca

Alessandro Santoro

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Economics, Psychology & Social Sciences (CISEPS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 4, 2022

Abstract

Tax audits are the main tool adopted by tax administrations to collect taxes. Their optimal number depends on two parameters, i.e. the enforcement elasticity of tax revenue with respect to the audit effort and the sum of private compliance costs and public administrative costs entailed by audits. In turn, the enforcement elasticity critically depends on audit selection criteria actually chosen by tax authorities. In this paper, we apply a machine learning approach to Italian data and we provide evidence that, in 2010 and 2011, audited taxpayers are those whose reporting behavior between the reporting year and the audit year has deviated from the business cycle. We use these audit criteria to match audited taxpayers to non-audited ones and we obtain an estimate of the enforcement elasticity that allows us to characterize the optimal number of tax audits as a function of the ratio between private compliance and public administrative costs.


Keywords: Optimal Tax Administration, Enforcement Elasticity of Tax Revenue

JEL Classification: H26; C55

Suggested Citation:

Spinelli, Daniele and Berta, Paolo and Santoro, Alessandro, The Optimal Number of Tax Audits: Evidence from Italy (May 4, 2022). University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 497, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4099961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Show
The dynamic effects of tax auditsthe dynamic effects of tax audits
Review of Economics and Statistics Posted: 2022
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International tax and public finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
J Alm , C Blackwell , M Mckee
Audit selection and firm compliance with a broad-based sales tax
National Tax Journal , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 227 Posted: 2004
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
751
RANK
518,107
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies