Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Threshold-dependent tax enforcement and the size distribution of firms: evidence from Germany

International Tax and Public Finance

34 Pages Posted: 10 May 2022

Drahomir Klimsa

University of Augsburg

Robert Ullmann

University of Augsburg; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Date Written: February 23, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates ﬁrms’ responses to threshold-dependent intensity of tax enforcement. We use administrative tax return data over the entire population of German ﬁrms and exploit industry variation in ﬁrm size thresholds applied by the tax administration. In our setting, each threshold marks a considerable spike in audit intensity and hence should create strong incentives to bunch below the threshold. However, we ﬁnd no such eﬀect in our large sample analysis. We attribute this empirical observation to optimization costs, particularly to the costs associated with the operational implementation of size management and to information costs. Our paper adds to the emerging ﬁeld of studies on potential distortions created by threshold-dependent ﬁrm regulation. The ﬁndings are also relevant for policymakers, as they suggest that the speciﬁc design of threshold-dependent policies might allow governments to increase the eﬃciency of tax audits without distorting the ﬁrm size distribution.

Keywords: tax enforcement, size-dependent regulation, bunching, administrative data, Germany

JEL Classification: H26, H32, K42

Suggested Citation:

Klimsa, Drahomir and Ullmann, Robert, Threshold-dependent tax enforcement and the size distribution of firms: evidence from Germany (February 23, 2022). International Tax and Public Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
C A Agostini , E Engel , A Repetto , D Vergara
Using small businesses for individual tax planning: Evidence from special tax regimes in Chile
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 1449 - 1489 Posted: 2018
J Alm
What Motivates Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 388 Posted: 2019
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee
Getting the word out: Enforcement information dissemination and compliance behavior
Journal of Public Economics , volume 93 , issue 3-4 , p. 392 - 402 Posted: 2009
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the radar: The effects of monitoring firms on tax compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Drahomir Klimsa , Mario Rieger , Robert Ullmann
How (Not) to Tax Sunshine: Bunching around Tax-Exempt Thresholds for Rooftop Photovoltaic Systems
27 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2024 · Last revised: 3 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
468
RANK
753,736
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies