Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Buoyant or Sinking? Tax Revenue Performance and Prospects in Developing Asia

Asian Development Bank Economics Working Paper Series No. 656

24 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Samuel Hill

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yothin Jinjarak

Asian Development Bank

Donghyun Park

Asian Development Bank - Economic Research

Date Written: May 6, 2022

Abstract

How did developing Asian economies perform with respect to tax revenue mobilization before and during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic? An analysis of data from developing Asia suggests that both short-run and long-run tax buoyancies, a measure of how tax revenue responds to gross domestic product (GDP), were close to one before COVID-19, which is indicative of fiscal sustainability. COVID-19 had a negative impact on the region’s GDP and thus its tax base, and spurred significant fiscal stimulus including tax measures. At a regional level, the pandemic subtracted a tenth of a percentage point from tax revenue growth after controlling for changes in GDP. Using estimated economy-level tax buoyancy coefficients, a counterfactual analysis is undertaken to estimate excess tax revenue losses in 2020 because of COVID-19. The average GDP-weighted excess tax revenue loss is about half a percentage point of pre-pandemic GDP.

Keywords: tax collection, business cycles, pandemic crisis

JEL Classification: E32, H12, H20, H71

Suggested Citation:

Hill, Samuel and Jinjarak, Yothin and Park, Donghyun, Buoyant or Sinking? Tax Revenue Performance and Prospects in Developing Asia (May 6, 2022). Asian Development Bank Economics Working Paper Series No. 656, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4101742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4101742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Mobilizing Taxes for Inclusive Growth. Asian Development Outlook Posted: 2022
Dora Benedek , Edward R Gemayel , Abdelhak S Senhadji , Alexander F Tieman
A Post-Pandemic Assessment of the Sustainable Development Goals. IMF Staff Discussion Note SDN/2021/003 Posted: 2021
Robert F Engle , Clive Wj Granger
Co-Integration and Error Correction: Representation, Estimation, and Testing
Econometrica , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 276 Posted: 1987
John Creedy , Norman Gemmell
Corporation Tax Buoyancy and Revenue Elasticity in the UK
Economic Modelling , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 37 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Elias A. Udeaja , Mariam Yusuf , Peter F. Offum
Estimating Tax Buoyancy for Nigeria in the light of Emerging Tax Reforms
Journal of Tax Reform , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 25 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
640,442
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies