Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Effectiveness of Law Enforcement in Improving Tax Compliance in Indonesia: An Empirical Investigation

66 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022

Arifin Rosid

Directorate General of Taxation; Department of Accounting

Romadhaniah Romadhaniah

Directorate General of Taxation

Date Written: August 3, 2021

Abstract

While there are various studies on the relationship between law enforcement and tax compliance, a study that empirically examines the relationship between them within an actual tax administration’s strategy map is lacking in the literature. In response, we set out to examine an identified knowledge gap about whether, and precisely how effective, law enforcement may impact on tax compliance in Indonesia. Investigating administrative data from all 352 tax offices across Indonesia, we reveal two principal findings. First, law enforcement appears to have a discernible impact on tax compliance. Second, the findings suggest that, while Audit Coverage Ratio (ACR) has played a vital role in improving tax compliance, criminal investigation appears to be an influential factor in determining the effectiveness of law enforcement. We conclude that law enforcement is an important aspect of tax administration and better law enforcement would help the Indonesian tax authority improve tax compliance and raise revenue.

Keywords: tax compliance, law enforcement, performance management, tax administration

JEL Classification: D04, H20, H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Rosid, Arifin and Romadhaniah, Romadhaniah, Assessing the Effectiveness of Law Enforcement in Improving Tax Compliance in Indonesia: An Empirical Investigation (August 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4104944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4104944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume I , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
James Alm
A Perspective on the Experimental Analysis of Taxpayer Reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 3 Posted: 1991
Measuring, Explaining, and Controlling Tax Evasion: Lessons from Theory, Experiments, and Field Studies , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77
James Alm , Michael Mckee
Audit Certainty, Audit Productivity, and Taxpayer Compliance
Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Arifin Rosid , Fitri Ariyani
Does ‘Information Reporting’ Really Matter for Tax Compliance? The Case of Indonesia
43 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2022 · Last revised: 29 May 2022 · Downloads: 426
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,042
RANK
333,158
1 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies