Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Shopping Can Redistribute Local Tax Revenue from Urban to Rural America

57 Pages Posted: 18 May 2022 Last revised: 31 Dec 2022

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Iuliia Shybalkina

University of Kentucky

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

What is the effect of e-commerce on the geographic distribution of local sales tax revenues? Using COVID-19 as a shock to online shopping and hand-collected high-frequency data on local sales tax revenue, we document an important shift in the state and local public finance landscape. As e-commerce increases, a destination basis for remote sales taxes results in higher growth in local sales tax collections in smaller, generally more rural jurisdictions. This increase comes at the expense of larger urban retail centers, which previously enjoyed an origin basis for sales tax collections. As households replace in-person commerce with online shopping, sales taxes no longer accrue to urban centers with large concentrations of retail establishments and instead expand the tax base of smaller jurisdictions. State-level reforms that enforce sales compliance generally mitigate the revenue falls in larger jurisdictions and amplify the increases in smaller jurisdictions.

Keywords: sales tax, online shopping, e-commerce, COVID-19, tax revenue

JEL Classification: H25, H71, L81, R51

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Shybalkina, Iuliia, Online Shopping Can Redistribute Local Tax Revenue from Urban to Rural America (April 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4110193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Whitney Afonso
The Impact of the Amazon Tax on Local Sales Tax Revenue in Urban and Rural Jurisdictions
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 68 - 90 Posted: 2019
David R Agrawal , E David , ; Wildasin , Iuliia Shybalkina ; Jan , K Brueckner
Taxes and Telework: The Impacts of State Income Taxes in a Work-from-Home Economy
LOST in America: Evidence on Local Sales Taxes from National Panel Data , volume 49 , p. 128 - 143 Posted: 2014
William F Fox
Taxing Goods and Services in a Digital Era
National Tax Journal , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 257 - 301 Posted: 2021
Brian Baugh , Itzhak Ben-David , Hoonsuk Park
Can Taxes Shape an Industry? Evidence from the Implementation of the "Amazon Tax
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1819 - 1855 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
204,172
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies