Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Pigouvian Taxation and Environmental Emissions with Corporate Social Responsible Firms

41 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022

Mauricio G. Villena

Universidad Diego Portales

Abstract

We model a Cournot duopoly market in which a CSR firm interacts with a profit maximizing firm and where the market is regulated with Pigouvian taxation. We consider three different kinds of CSR firm behaviors: (i) consumer-friendly; (ii) environmentally-friendly; and (iii) consumer-environment friendly. As a benchmark we also analyze the case in which both firms are only concerned with material profits. We found that the canonical optimal Pigouvian taxation rule is modified when considering different CSR motivations. This is a relevant finding for environmental regulation, which implies that behavioral biases, caused in this case by non-profit motives, must be taken into account when designing optimal taxation. We also found that the better CSR motivation for improving the state of the environment, i.e. reducing environmental emissions, is the consumer-friendly behavior and not the environmentally friendly one, which implies that in this context "going green" does not necessarily guarantee a cleaner environment. This result suggests that the regulatory authority should not always consider environmentally-friendly CSR behavior to be the more beneficial for the environment in an oligopolistic framework in which there are strategic incentives and an emissions tax in place.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, consumer-friendly firm, environment-friendly firm, Cournot Duopoly, Environmental Emissions, Pigouvian Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Villena, Mauricio G., Optimal Pigouvian Taxation and Environmental Emissions with Corporate Social Responsible Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4110692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4110692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
S A Aaronson
A match made in the corporate and public interest: Marrying voluntary CSR initiatives and the WTO
Journal of World Trade , issue 3 Posted: 2007
J C Bárcena-Ruiz , M B Garzón
Mixed oligopoly and environmental policy
Spanish Economic Review , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 160 Posted: 2006
E Barman
Doing well by doing good: A comparative analysis of ESG standards for responsible investment
Sustainability, stakeholder governance, and corporate social responsibility , volume 70 , p. 1037 - 1041 Posted: 1980
D P Baron
Managerial contracting and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Public Economics , volume 92 , issue 1-2 , p. 268 - 288 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
527
RANK
653,956
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies