Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The "Robot Economy" and Optimal Tax-Transfer Reforms

IZA Discussion Paper No. 15198

58 Pages Posted: 19 May 2022 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Ugo Colombino

University of Turin - Department of Economics

Nizamul Islam

Luxembourg Institute of Socio-Economic Research (LISER)

Abstract

Globalization and automation might imply deep changes on the labour market. An important policy issue is whether and how the tax-transfer rules should be reformed to cope with those changes. While the prevailing response has consisted of more sophisticated designs of mean-testing and targeting, we also witness an increasing interest in policies inspired by simplicity and universality. In this paper we take the latter route. Using a combination of behavioural microsimulation and numerical optimization, we look for a social welfare optimal tax-transfer rule within a flexible class where total household disposable income is a 4th polynomial in total household taxable income. We use a model of household labour supply that makes it possible to account for equilibrium constraints and to evaluate the effects of exogenous labour demand shocks. We consider two stylized scenarios: the Jobless Economy (the robots take over 10% of jobs at every skill-level) and the Polarized Economy (the robots take over 10% of the unskilled jobs while skilled jobs increase by 10%). We compare the social welfare performance of the polynomial optimal rules and of the current rules under the Current Economy scenario and under the alternative Jobless Economy and the Polarized Economy scenarios. We present results using the 2015 EU-SILC data sets for France, Germany, Italy and Luxembourg. The polynomial optimal rules feature a universal basic income and an almost flat marginal tax rate profile and are social welfare-superior under the Current Economy scenario in all the countries and also under the alternative scenarios in France, Germany and Italy.

Keywords: empirical optimal taxation, microsimulation, microeconometrics, evaluation of tax-transfer rules, equilibrium, robot economy

JEL Classification: H21, C18

Suggested Citation:

Colombino, Ugo and Islam, Nizamul, The "Robot Economy" and Optimal Tax-Transfer Reforms. IZA Discussion Paper No. 15198, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4114771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R Aaberge , U Colombino
Designing optimal taxes with a microeconometric model of household labour supply, IZA Discussion Papers 2468 Posted: 2006
R Aaberge , U Colombino
Accounting for family background when designing optimal income taxes: a microeconometric simulation analysis
Journal of Population Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 741 - 761 Posted: 2012
R Aaberge , U Colombino
Using a microeconometric model of household labour supply to design optimal income taxes
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 475 Posted: 2013
R Aaberge , U Colombino , Donoghue
Labour supply models
handbook of microsimulation modelling Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Abu Kai Kamara , Sheku Kamara
The Impact of Tax Strategies on Revenue Mobilization in Sierra Leone
26 Pages · Posted: 9 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 364
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
RANK
805,836
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies