Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Foreign Investment in the United States

IMF Working Paper No. 2022/079

30 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 1 Jun 2022

Thornton Matheson

The Urban Institute; International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Alexander Klemm

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Laura Power

Government of the State of Michigan - Department of Treasury

Thomas Brosy

Tax Policy Center

Date Written: May 2022

Abstract

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) sharply reduced effective corporate income tax rates on equity-financed US investment. This paper examines the reform’s impact on US inbound foreign direct investment (FDI) and investment in property, plant and equipment (PPE) by foreign-owned US companies. We first model effective marginal and average tax rates (EMTRs and EATRs) by country, industry, and method of finance, and then use those tax rates to calculate the tax semi-elasticities of inbound FDI and PPE investment. We find that both PPE investment and FDI financed with retained earnings responded positively to the TCJA reform, but FDI financed with new equity or debt did not. In country-level PPE regressions, inclusion of macroeconomic controls renders tax rate coefficients insignificant, suggesting that the increase in PPE investment after TCJA was driven by general economic growth. In regressions of FDI financed with retained earnings, however, tax coefficients were robust to inclusion of macroeconomic controls. As the literature predicts, EATRs have a greater impact on cross-border investment than EMTRs. Country-by-industry regressions showed a larger effect of taxes on PPE investment than aggregate country-level regressions, but industry-level tax rates appear to have no effect on earnings retention.

Keywords: TCJA, Inbound Investment, Effective Tax Rates, PPE investment, investment in property, plant and equipment, PPE Investment, inbound foreign direct investment, tax coefficient, Effective tax rate, Foreign direct investment, Marginal effective tax rate, Average effective tax rate, Corporate income tax, Global

JEL Classification: F21, H25, H20

Suggested Citation:

Matheson, Thornton and Klemm, Alexander and power, laura and Brosy, Thomas, The Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Foreign Investment in the United States (May 2022). IMF Working Paper No. 2022/079, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
C Agostini
The Impact of State Corporate Taxes on FDI Location
Public Finance Review , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 360 Posted: 2007
H Amberger , L Robinson
The Effect of US Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions Posted: 2021
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carol Evidence and an Application to Employment Data
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
A Auerbach , K Hassett , A Giovannini
Taxation and Foreign Direct Investment in the United States: A Reconsideration of the Evidence
Studies in International Taxation Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
416,133
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies