Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should a Global Minimum Tax be Country-by-Country?

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-24

12 Pages Posted: 25 May 2022 Last revised: 12 Apr 2023

Chris William Sanchirico

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School - Business Economics and Public Policy Department

Date Written: March 25, 2022

Abstract

The OECD has proposed implementing a global minimum tax, and the US already has in place one version of such a regime in the form of GILTI. A key design choice in the imposition of a global minimum tax is whether the minimum should be tested on a country-by-country basis or on the basis of an MNE's global average tax rate. The consensus view appears to be that a country-by-country approach is superior because, first, it raises more revenue and, second, it is more effective at controlling harmful tax competition. This paper challenges those assertions. It presents a simple game-theoretic analysis suggesting that a global averaging approach is superior in both respects.

See also Sanchirico, Chris William, A Game-theoretic Analysis of Global Minimum Tax Design: Country-by-Country v. Global Averaging (March 25, 2022). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4066747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4066747

Keywords: Global minimum tax, country-by-country, Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules, GloBE, Pillar Two, Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, GILTI, GILTI High-tax Exception, GILTI HTE, Base erosion, Global tax reform

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H26, C72

Suggested Citation:

Sanchirico, Chris William, Should a Global Minimum Tax be Country-by-Country? (March 25, 2022). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 22-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
239,334
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies