Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Profit Shifting of Multinational Companies: Evidence from CbCR Micro Data

CESifo Working Paper No. 9757

47 Pages Posted: 26 May 2022

Clemens Fuest

ifo Institute – Leibniz Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich; Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich; Center for Economic Studies (CES)

Stefan Greil

University of Hamburg

Felix Hugger

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Florian Neumeier

- Ifo Institute

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This paper uses micro data from country-by-country reporting of more than 3600 large multinational companies operating in 238 jurisdictions to analyze global profit shifting to avoid taxes. These companies report 7% of their global profits in jurisdictions with effective average tax rates below 5%, but only 0.4% of their employees and 3% of their tangible assets are located there. We find that globally, these companies reduce their tax burden by EUR 53 billion (15% of their overall tax payments) by shifting profits to low-tax countries. Losses of the US and Canada are slightly lower, the losses of the EU 27 member states are similar to the global average. 60% of the profit shifting is carried out by the 10% largest multinational companies. We show that taking into account non-linearities in profit shifting and subsidiaries reporting zero profits is of key importance for accurate estimates of profit shifting. We also investigate profit shifting channels and provide evidence suggesting that the location of IP and equity in low tax countries as well as the provision of loans to entities in high tax countries play a key role for tax planning.

Keywords: : corporate taxation, tax avoidance, profit shifting, multinational enterprises, country-by-country reporting

JEL Classification: F230, H250, H260

Suggested Citation:

Fuest, Clemens and Greil, Stefan and Hugger, Felix and Neumeier, Florian, Global Profit Shifting of Multinational Companies: Evidence from CbCR Micro Data (2022). CESifo Working Paper No. 9757, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4120149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4120149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
K A Bilicka
Comparing UK tax returns of foreign multinationals to matched domestic rms
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 8 Posted: 2019
K A Bilicka , D Scur
Organizational capacity and prot shifting Posted: 2022
B Bratta , V Santomartino , P Acciari
Assessing prot shifting using country-bycountry reports: A non-linear response to tax rate dierentials
Dipartimento delle Finanze Working Paper , issue 11 Posted: 2021
Load more
11 Citations
Barbara Bratta , Vera Santomartino , Paolo Acciari
Assessing Profit Shifting Using Country-by-Country Reports: A Nonlinear Response to Tax Rate Differentials
National Tax Journal , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 349 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Philipp Meier
Universities and Firm Performance: Evidence from Germany
German Economic Review , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 61 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Felix Hugger
Regulatory avoidance responses to private Country-by-Country Reporting
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 271 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Felix Hugger , Ana Cinta Gonzalez Cabral , Pierce O’Reilly
Effective tax rates of MNEs and the global distribution of low-taxed profit
International Tax and Public Finance Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,096
RANK
123,946
11 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies