Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation of Risky Entrepreneurial Capital

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17266

73 Pages Posted: 27 May 2022

Corina Boar

New York University (NYU) - Department of Economics

Matthew Knowles

Independent

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

We study optimal taxation in a model with endogenous financial frictions, risky investment and occupational choice, where the distribution of wealth across entrepreneurs affects how efficiently capital is used. The planner chooses linear taxes on wealth, capital and labor income to maximize the steady state utility of a newborn agent. Most agents in the model are poor, leading to a redistributive motive for taxation. Optimal tax rates can be written as a closed-form function of the size of the tax bases and their elasticities with respect to tax rates. We find that it is optimal to tax capital income because financial frictions reduce the elasticity of capital income with respect to taxes and because capital income taxes prevent excessive entry into entrepreneurship. Optimal wealth taxes are positive but close to zero, since they strongly discourage capital accumulation.

Keywords: entrepreneurship, Financial Frictions, taxation

JEL Classification: E2, E6, H2

Suggested Citation:

Boar, Corina and Knowles, Matthew, Optimal Taxation of Risky Entrepreneurial Capital (April 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17266, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121449
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
37 References
S Abo-Zaid
Optimal capital-income taxation in a model with credit frictions
The B.E. Journal of Macroeconomics , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 147 - 172 Posted: 2014
M Basseto , W Cui
Optimal positive capital taxes at interior steady states Posted: 2019
B S Bernanke , M Gertler , S Gilchrist
The financial accelerator in a quantitative business cycle framework. Handbook of macroeconomics , volume 1 , p. 1341 - 1393 Posted: 1999
N Biljanovska
Optimal Policy In Collateral Constrained Economies , volume 23 , p. 798 - 836 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Marius Alexander Kalleberg Ring , Thor Olav Thoresen
Wealth Taxation and Charitable Giving
90 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 13 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 366
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1
ABSTRACT VIEWS
257
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies