Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Withholding Matters: The Impact of Act 32 on Compliance with the Earned Income Tax

15 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2022

Sutirtha Bagchi

Villanova University - School of Business - Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines Act 32 of the Pennsylvania state legislature which mandated the introduction of withholding for the local earned income tax (EIT) for all employees and the consolidation of a fragmented collection system to one collector per county effective January 1, 2012. The estimates I obtain suggest that the act resulted in increased compliance with the EIT of about 13 percent. A falsification exercise examining compliance with the property tax for the identical municipalities confirms that Act 32 did not impact the property tax. Both findings are robust to the inclusion of municipality fixed effects or municipality-specific time trends.

Keywords: Earned income tax, Tax compliance, Withholding, Event Study

JEL Classification: H26, H71, R51

Suggested Citation:

Bagchi, Sutirtha, Withholding Matters: The Impact of Act 32 on Compliance with the Earned Income Tax (May 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Sutirtha Bagchi , Libor Dušek
The effects of introducing withholding and third-party reporting on tax collections: Evidence from the U.S. state personal income tax
Journal of Public Economics , volume 204 Posted: 2021
Anne Brockmeyer , Marco Hernandez
Taxation, information, and withholding: Evidence from Costa Rica Posted: 2019
William C Boning
Paying Taxes Automatically: Behavioral Effects of Withholding Income Tax Posted: 2018
Legislative Budget , Finance Committee
The Impact of Act 32 on the Collection of Local Earned Income Taxes Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
437
RANK
730,413
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies