Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Tax Aggressive Behaviour: Testing the Proxies

(2022) 37(1) Australian Tax Forum 27-63

37 Pages Posted: 31 May 2022

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Kerrie Sadiq

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Bronwyn McCredie

Queensland University of Technology; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

The proprietary nature of corporate management tax policy and corporate tax return information results in very little information being known about the tax aggressive behaviour of these entities. Despite this lack of inside knowledge, tax scholars have continued to attempt to identify corporate tax aggressiveness via the use of proxies using publicly available data. There are numerous different proxies, each with different characteristics as well as perceived advantages and disadvantages. Two common proxies that allow for a continuous ranking of corporate taxpayers are effective tax rates and book-tax differences. Yet, even these proxies can be and are calculated in multiple ways using a variety of data and methodologies. There are also dichotomous proxies such as a presence in a harmful tax regime and involvement in tax disputes. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the application of the different proxies to determine whether there is any consistency in the manner in which they estimate the tax aggressiveness of large publicly listed corporate entities. A total of 16 proxies were used: seven effective tax rate proxies, seven book-tax differences proxies, one harmful tax regime proxy, and one tax dispute proxy. The proxies were applied to the Australian Stock Exchange top 200 companies (ASX200) to determine whether there was any consistency in the outcomes from the application of the proxies.

The findings indicate that there is little correlation of results from the 14 continuous proxies, whether considered in terms of the full set of continuous proxies or each of the subsets separately. Nor is there a significant correlation between companies identified as tax aggressive using the continuous proxies and those identified as tax aggressive using the dichotomous proxies. The results suggest the use of proxies to identify tax aggressive firms is unlikely to play an important role in the study of tax aggressive behaviour.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard and Sadiq, Kerrie and McCredie, Bronwyn, Identifying Tax Aggressive Behaviour: Testing the Proxies (March 1, 2022). (2022) 37(1) Australian Tax Forum 27-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Lanis Mcclure , Govendir
, volume 38
See , Jr James R Hines , Eric M Rice ; Mihir A Desai , Fritz Foley , James R Hines , Jr
The Demand for Tax Haven Operations
Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business' , volume 109 Posted: 1994
Rice Hines
Ibid , See , H Walter , Dorothy B Diamond , Diamond
Tax Havens of the World Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,024
RANK
292,525
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies