Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Market-Based Sourcing on Labor Outcomes

Journal of Public Economics, Vol. 225, No. 104966, 2023

80 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2022 Last revised: 24 Aug 2023

Anthony Welsch

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how income tax sourcing rules affect business activity in U.S. states. As technology has enabled companies to provide services to consumers globally, a growing number of governments seek to tax service companies based on the customer location (“market-based sourcing”) rather than the location of the company’s labor and capital. Consistent with market-based sourcing reducing the tax cost of locating marginal labor in the state, I find that state adoption of market-based sourcing increases the total number of employees and total labor earnings in affected service industries by roughly 2 to 5 percent, after controlling for concurrent tax policy changes. I find indirect evidence that the effects are mostly attributable to business expansion rather than employee reallocation across states. Market-based sourcing does not seem to adversely affect state corporate tax revenues. This study provides timely insights for policymakers given increased adoption of market-based sourcing by U.S. states and related international proposals.

Keywords: Business Tax, State Government, Labor Markets

JEL Classification: E24, H25, H71

Suggested Citation:

Welsch, Anthony, The Effect of Market-Based Sourcing on Labor Outcomes (February 1, 2021). Journal of Public Economics, Vol. 225, No. 104966, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4127298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4127298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
The politics of government resource allocation: Evidence from U.S. state government awarded economic incentives Posted: 2021
A Auerbach , M Devereux , H Simpson
Taxing Corporate Income Posted: 2008
A Baker , D Larcker , C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
RANK
260,475
4 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies