Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Tax Design: Choice of Tax Base and Rate Structure

Apps, P. (2022). Optimal tax design: choice of tax base and rate structure [forthcoming]. Australian Tax Forum.

20 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022

Patricia F. Apps

The University of Sydney Law School; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Date Written: June 5, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines the distributional outcomes of the tax parameters of the Australian income tax system within the framework of modern tax theory. The analysis focuses first on the parameters of the Personal Income Tax and Low Income Tax Offset. The results show that Australia has moved towards an effective marginal tax rate scale on individual incomes that is less progressive and no longer strictly progressive, changes which have shifted the overall burden towards low and middle income earners. Turning to the impact of including Family Tax Benefit - Part A, the analysis identifies the resulting high effective marginal tax rates across low to average primary incomes and, in turn, on the income of the 2nd earner with the potential for a strongly negative effect on female labour supply, human capital and fertility. These outcomes are supported by the results of empirical studies reported in the paper.

Keywords: Inequality, Optimal taxation, Personal income, Childcare, Time allocation

JEL Classification: D63, H21, H24, J13,J22

Suggested Citation:

Apps, Patricia F., Optimal Tax Design: Choice of Tax Base and Rate Structure (June 5, 2022). Apps, P. (2022). Optimal tax design: choice of tax base and rate structure [forthcoming]. Australian Tax Forum., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4128477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4128477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Y Andrienko , P Apps , Rees
Optimal Taxation and Top Incomes
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 981 - 1003 Posted: 2016
P Apps
Why the Henry Review Fails on Family Tax Reform
Australia's Future Tax System: The Prospects After Henry , volume 5 , p. 103 - 127 Posted: 2010
P Apps
Institutional Inequality and Tax Incidence
Journal of Public Economics , volume 18 , p. 217 - 242 Posted: 1982
P Apps , Kabátek , R Van Soest , Rees
Labor Supply Heterogeneity and the Demand for Child Care of Mothers with Young Children
Empirical Economics , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 1641 - 1677 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
397,014
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies