Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of U.S. Country-by-Country Reporting on U.S. Multinationals’ Tax-Motivated Income Shifting and Real Activities

65 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Michelle L. Nessa

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Anh Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business - Department of Accountancy

Jane Z. Song

University of Missouri - Trulaske College of Business

Erin Towery

University of Georgia

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 11, 2024

Abstract

The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development introduced country-by-country reporting (CbCR) for multinational enterprises (MNEs) to help tax authorities combat tax-motivated income shifting. This study uses confidential U.S. tax administrative data from 2011 to 2018 to examine the effect of U.S. CbCR adoption on the tax-motivated income shifting and real activities of U.S. MNEs. We first document that while U.S. CbCR provides the Internal Revenue Service with incremental information about the location of U.S. MNEs’ global activities relative to existing U.S. tax return disclosures, we observe substantial overlap between U.S. CbCR and existing disclosures. In contrast with prior CbCR studies in cross-country settings, we fail to find evidence of a change in U.S. MNEs’ tax-motivated income shifting or a reallocation of real activities based on tax incentives in response to U.S. CbCR using multiple empirical approaches. Overall, our study leverages U.S.

Keywords: Country-by-country reporting, disclosure regulation, BEPS, income shifting, IRS

JEL Classification: G38; G39; H20; H25; H26

Suggested Citation:

Nessa, Michelle L. and Persson, Anh and Song, Jane (Zhiyan) and Towery, Erin and Vernon, Mary, The Effect of U.S. Country-by-Country Reporting on U.S. Multinationals’ Tax-Motivated Income Shifting and Real Activities (October 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4130818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Vladimir Atanasov , Bernard Black
Shock-Based Causal Inference in Corporate Finance and Accounting Research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
Jennifer Blouin , Leslie A Robinson
Double Counting Accounting: How Much Profit of Multinational Enterprises Is Really in Tax Havens?
SSRN Scholarly Paper Posted: 2020
Sebastian Calonico , Matias D Cattaneo , Max H Farrell
Optimal Bandwidth Choice for Robust Bias-Corrected Inference in Regression Discontinuity Designs
The Econometrics Journal , volume 23 , p. 192 - 210 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
424
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
157,700
7 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies