Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exit Costs And The Mobility Of Wealthy Taxpayers

19 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Carlos Contreras

Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM)

Julio Angulo

Independent

Date Written: June 14, 2022

Abstract

Taxes on personal net wealth have been abolished in almost all countries. However, some scholars and policymakers have recently proposed to reintroduce this type of taxation as a mechanism to fight inequality. This paper aims to contribute to the literature on tax-motivated mobility of individuals. A contribution of the paper is the use of a model in which the wealth stock is endogenously generated. Based on a simulation exercise, we estimated the exit costs that taxpayers would have to face to desist from leaving their tax jurisdiction if a net wealth tax is implemented. This paper highlights that the mobility of the wealthy and highly skilled is a clear obstacle to the reintroduction of wealth taxation in a globalised world, unless governments reach and comply with cooperation agreements on the matter.

Keywords: Net wealth tax, tax-motivated mobility, exit cost

JEL Classification: H24, H26

Suggested Citation:

Contreras, Carlos and Angulo, Julio, Exit Costs And The Mobility Of Wealthy Taxpayers (June 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4136162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4136162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Adam , T Besley , R Blundell , S Bond , R Chote , M Gammie , P Johnson , G Myles , J Poterba , J A Mirrlees , S Adam , T Besley , R Blundell , S Bond , R Chote , M Gammie , P Johnson , G Myles , J Poterba
Taxes on Wealth Transfers
Tax by Design. The Mirrlees Review , volume 15 , p. 347 - 367 Posted: 2011
A Advani , H Tarrant
Behavioural responses to a wealth tax
Fiscal Studies , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 509 - 537 Posted: 2021
F Bierbrauer , C Brett , J A Weymark
Strategic nonlinear income tax competition with perfect labor mobility
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 82 , p. 292 - 311 Posted: 2013
T Blumkin , E Sadka , Y Shem-Tov
International tax competition: zero tax rate at the top re-established
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 760 - 776 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
RANK
834,175
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies