Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Tax Deductibility of Interest Affect Financial Reporting?

57 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Kaishu Wu

University of Waterloo

Date Written: June 17, 2022

Abstract

Many countries have imposed tax policies that limit the deductibility of interest costs, creating a plausibly exogenous increase in the net cost of borrowing. The limits are based on financial accounting numbers, adding a new incentive into managers’ choices. Firms in these countries are also expected to rely less on debt financing and face weaker demand for conservative financial reporting from creditors as compared to firms in other countries. Tests employ a large sample of U.S. firms around the implementation of interest limits under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and a second set of firms in OECD countries from 1985 to 2013 subjected to similar limitations. Exploiting these two settings and difference-in-differences research designs, we provide evidence that the adoption of these tax deductibility limits reduces conditional conservatism of firms’ financial reporting. Overall, our findings suggest that the tax rules affecting the deductibility of interest have important impacts on corporate financial reporting. Such changes can have unintended consequences for other decisions of interest to tax policy makers, such as investment choices documented by others.

Keywords: Tax Deductibility of Interest, Financial Reporting, U.S. Tax Cuts & Jobs Act

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H26, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Shawn X. and Klassen, Kenneth and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Wu, Kaishu, Does the Tax Deductibility of Interest Affect Financial Reporting? (June 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
C Aghamolla , N Li
Debt contract enforcement and conservatism: evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1383 - 1416 Posted: 2018
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: Evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
RANK
409,562
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies