Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Financial Performance of Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) In Port Harcourt

University of Port Harcourt Journal of Accounting and Business (2020), 7(1), 1-27

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2022

G.N Ogbonna

University of Port Harcourt - Department of Accounting

T.E Onuoha

University of Port Harcourt

Sunday Chukwu

Independent

Friday Ojeaburu

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; University of Port Harcourt

Date Written: 12 31, 2020

Abstract

Gitam The study examined the relationship between taxation and financial performance of quoted SMEs in Nigeria from 2013 to 2017. Company income tax and education tax were taxation proxies while return on investment, return on assets and current ratio were the proxies of financial performance. The researchers adopted expost-facto research design for the study. The study used secondary data obtained from the audited annual reports and accounts of the ten listed SMEs’ website and whose stocks are traded on the alternative security market (ASeM) in the Nigeria stock exchange. The research data was analyzed using basic descriptive, Pearson product moment correlation and multiple regression in a panel data setting with the aid of E-View version 9. The results revealed that company income tax and education tax have no significant relationship with return on investment return on assets and current ratio quoted small and medium enterprises in Nigeria in the period of this study. We thus concluded that taxation has no significant relationship with financial performance of SMEs in Nigeria in the period of this study. It is recommended that government should review downward the current corporate tax rate of 30% on SMEs to enable them perform optimally in this highly business competitive environment in Nigeria. We equally endorsed that Nigerian tax authority should carry out their duties more efficiently with the most care and integrity to combat multiple taxes for better performance.

Keywords: Nigeria, taxation, financial performance, small business, medium business

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ogbonna, G.N and Onuoha, T.E and Chukwu, Sunday and Ojeaburu, Friday, Taxation and Financial Performance of Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) In Port Harcourt (12 31, 2020). University of Port Harcourt Journal of Accounting and Business (2020), 7(1), 1-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4139834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
T Altenburg , U Eckhardt
Productivity enhancement and equitable development: challenges for SME development Posted: 2006
A M O Anyanfo
Public finance in a developing economy: The Nigerian case. Department of Banking and Finance Posted: 1996
D B Audretsch , A R Thurik
Unraveling the shift to the entrepreneurial economy
Environmental Affairs Research Paper Posted: 2010
S Adam
Wealth of Nations. W. Strahan and T Posted: 1776
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
127,554
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies