Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxable Amount for VAT Purposes – CJUE Case Law: Refresh and Update

JusGov Research Paper No. 2022-12

13 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Andreia Barbosa

University of Minho - School of Law

Date Written: June 20, 2022

Abstract

The legal regime of value added tax (VAT) has been particularly given to interpretations and jurisprudential creations that mark very sharply the terms in which it is applied, with implications that are not concentrated in the national sphere. There is jurisprudence in the field of VAT, mainly originating from the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is paradigmatic, even today, and which, for this reason, deserves to be remembered. And we are also witnessing, at an accelerated pace, the constant emergence of new decisions, which Tax Law practitioners should be aware of. The fact that this is a tax that is widely accepted at an international level allows the jurisprudential approach to be particularly rich, calling different experiences and solutions as to how to deal with taxation on consumption. It is in this sense that this paper deals with the taxable amount for VAT purposes - one of the most relevant dimensions in determining the VAT due -, in the light of the case law.


Keywords: value added tax, taxable amount, consideration, customs value, CJEU case law

Suggested Citation:

Barbosa, Andreia, The Taxable Amount for VAT Purposes – CJUE Case Law: Refresh and Update (June 20, 2022). JusGov Research Paper No. 2022-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4140987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4140987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
RANK
730,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies