Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Standard CGE Model for VAT Taxes

26 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022

Gene H Chang

University of Toledo

Kathryn J. Chang

Sonoma State University

Date Written: June 15, 2022

Abstract

This study constructs a general CGE model for value-added tax (VAT). From limited publicly available VAT data, the model is capable of estimating all VAT statistics at the detailed sectoral level, including estimates of Output VAT, Input VAT, Net VAT, and VAT Refunds to each intermediate input, to capital use, and to trade-and-transport margins. The model can be used to simulate VAT policies and study their impacts, including changes in sector-specific VAT rates, on national and sectoral accounts.

The paper provides the complete mathematical form of the VAT model. The digital GAMS program of the model is also available for interested readers to work on.* The model can function as a backbone CGE structure for extended VAT studies on topics such as assessing effective VAT rates or estimating the net tax revenue from each individual sector if the U.S. adopts the VAT system.


Keywords: CGE, VAT, SAM

JEL Classification: C68, H20, E1

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Gene H and Chang, Kathryn J., A Standard CGE Model for VAT Taxes (June 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4141707 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4141707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Channing Arndt , Bruce Byiers , Sherman Robinson , Finn Tarp
Taxation in a Low-Income Economy: The Case of Mozambique. Routledge Studies in Development Economics , p. 328 - 340 Posted: 2009
Keshab Bhattarai , Dung Thi , Kim Nguyen , Chan Van Nguyen
Impacts of Direct and Indirect Tax Reforms in Vietnam: A CGE Analysis
Economies , volume 7 Posted: 2019
Brita Bye , Briger Strom , Turid Avisland
Welfare Effects of VAT Reforms: A General Equilibrium Analysis
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 368 - 392 Posted: 2012
Gene H Chang
Theory and Programming of Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) Models Posted: 2022
Load more
1 Citations
Gene H. Chang , Ye Chen , Kathryn J. Chang
Effective VAT Rates, Tax Efficiency and Burden: Are Some Industries over-Taxed in China?
The Chinese Economy , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
991
RANK
310,241
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Aggregative Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies