Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Gift That Keeps On Giving: Stock Returns Around CEO Stock Gifts to Family Members

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

Jennifer L. Brown

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

George Ryan Huston

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Brian Wenzel

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: June 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine an overlooked type of insider transaction—CEOs’ stock gifts to family members. CEOs should prefer to make family stock gifts at relative price minima, consistent with an estate and gift tax planning strategy called an estate freeze. We demonstrate that CEO freeze gifts generally follow temporary price suppressions and precede significant price appreciation, leading to substantial estate tax savings. Further, we find positive market returns one- and two-years following disclosure of freeze gifts. However, the market response to disclosure of these gifts is confounded by the delayed reporting regime for gifts. We demonstrate additional strategic behavior based on evidence of backdating, timing around earnings announcements, and subsequent sales of gifted shares preceding diminishing stock performance. Our findings suggest CEO family stock gifts provide a credible signal of future price performance, which market participants would benefit more from if promptly disclosed.

Keywords: insider trading, estate & gift taxes, securities regulations, family wealth

JEL Classification: G18, H24, G38, D31

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Jennifer L. and Huston, George Ryan and Wenzel, Brian, The Gift That Keeps On Giving: Stock Returns Around CEO Stock Gifts to Family Members (June 23, 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Letter to SEC Re: Insider trades during pension fund blackout periods. Release No , volume 34 Posted: 2002
S Avci , C Schipani , N Seyhun
Manipulative games of gifts by corporate executives
University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1174 Posted: 2016
I Babenko , Y Tserlukevich , A Vedrashko
The credibility of open market share repurchase signaling
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1059 - 1088 Posted: 2012
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 3 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
hu guoliu , Yanlei Jiang , Jun Hu
Personal Income Tax Deferral, Executives’ Risk Tolerance, and Insider Trading Profitability: Evidence from Personal Income Tax Deferral Payments for Equity Incentives in China
EMEMAR-D-24-00188 · 38 Pages · Posted: 18 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
RANK
255,505
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies