Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Race between Tax Enforcement and Tax Planning: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Chile

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17347

78 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Sebastian Bustos

Harvard University - Center for International Development (CID)

Dina Pomeranz

University of Zurich

Juan Carlos Suárez Serrato

Stanford Graduate School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

José Vila-Belda

University of Zurich; University of Fribourg

Gabriel Zucman

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

Profit shifting by multinational corporations is thought to reduce tax revenue around the world. We analyze the introduction of standard regulations aimed at limiting profit shifting. Using administrative tax and customs data from Chile in difference-in-differences event-study designs, we find that the reform was ineffective in reducing multinationals' transfers to lower-tax countries and did not significantly raise tax payments. At the same time, interviews with tax advisors reveal a drastic increase in tax advisory services. The qualitative interviews also allow us to identify and then quantitatively confirm a common tax planning strategy in response to the reform. These results illustrate that when enforcement can be circumvented by sophisticated tax planning, it can benefit tax consultants at the expense of tax authorities and taxpayers.

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Bustos, Sebastian and Pomeranz, Dina and Suárez Serrato, Juan Carlos and Vila-Belda, José and Zucman, Gabriel, The Race between Tax Enforcement and Tax Planning: Evidence from a Natural Experiment in Chile (May 1, 2022). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP17347, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144665
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
82 References
Marcella Alsan , Owen Garrick , Grant Graziani
Does Diversity Matter for Health? Experimental Evidence from Oakland
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 12 , p. 4071 - 4111 Posted: 2019-12
Annette Alstadsaeter , Salvador Barrios , Gaëtan Nicodème , Agnieszka , Maria Skonieczna , Antonio Vezzani
Patent Boxes Design, Patents Location, and Local R&D
Economic Policy , issue 93 , p. 131 - 177 Posted: 2018
Pierre Bachas , Matthew Fisher-Post , Anders Jensen , Gabriel Zucman
Globalization and Factor Income Taxation Posted: 2022-03
Pablo Balan , Augustin Bergeron , Gabriel Tourek , Jonathan Weigel
Local Elites as State Capacity: How City Chiefs Use Local Information to Increase Tax Compliance in the DR Congo Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
320
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies