Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Firms’ Tax Aggressiveness and Lightweight Pre-Tax-Audit Interventions by the Tax Administration

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2022

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Pekka Malo

Aalto University

Esko Penttinen

Aalto University School of Business

Date Written: June 23, 2022

Abstract

A study examined private companies’ tax aggressiveness and its changes in response to interventions by the tax administration. While scholars have researched authorities’ interventions extensively, this study was the first to consider the “light” technique of tax adjustments made by the tax administration immediately after the firm submits its tax return. For the study, which utilized a large-scale proprietary dataset obtained from Finland’s tax administration (covering 85,155 firm years), the hypotheses addressed the relationship between the firm’s level of tax aggressiveness and the tax-administration intervention (H1) and that between the intervention and companies’ response to it (H2). The empirical findings support both hypotheses, indicating that, its lightweight nature notwithstanding, the pre-tax-audit intervention can serve as a tool for ameliorating firms’ overly tax-aggressive behavior. Finally, the authors present management implications that should be of interest to tax administrations and regulatory authorities, related to potential effectiveness of tax administration’ monitoring processes in mitigating tax aggressiveness of private companies.

Keywords: private firm, tax aggressiveness, tax-administration intervention, generalized structural equation modeling, Finland

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ojala, Hannu and Malo, Pekka and Penttinen, Esko, Private Firms’ Tax Aggressiveness and Lightweight Pre-Tax-Audit Interventions by the Tax Administration (June 23, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion. The theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
A Bauer
Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
A Bauer , X Fang , J Pittman
The importance of irs enforcement to stock price crash risk: The role of ceo power and incentives
Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 4 , p. 81 - 109 Posted: 2021
K Blaufus , J Hundsdoerfer , M Jacob , M Sünwoldt
Does legality matter? The case of tax avoidance and evasion
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 127 , p. 182 - 206 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
570
RANK
627,303
3 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies