Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investors’ assessment of cross-border M&A – What drives announcement returns post-TCJA?

62 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2022 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Max Pflitsch

Technical University of Dortmund

Date Written: October 7, 2025

Abstract

 The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) shifted the U.S. from a worldwide to a territorial tax system, reducing incentives to accumulate cash abroad (‘trapped cash’). Prior research links trapped cash to inefficient cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As), leading to lower announcement returns. If the TCJA mitigated excessive cross-border M&A, announcement returns should increase. However, if inefficient acquisitions continue after the TCJA, this could harm investors even more because the forgone alternative option of tax-exempt repatriation increases the relative costs of such acquisitions, leading to more negative investor reactions. Using a difference-in-differences approach, I find that cross-border M&A announcements by U.S. acquirers experience significantly lower abnormal returns post-TCJA, particularly among firms most affected by the prior repatriation tax system. Negative reactions are mitigated by stronger CEO-shareholder alignment and high payout policies, while firms with greater geographic dispersion and weaker governance face stronger negative reactions. Although institutional ownership does not directly impact investor reactions, I find some evidence that firms with higher institutional ownership engage in fewer acquisitions. Overall, my findings suggest that inefficient acquisitions previously linked to the worldwide tax system still occur under the territorial system.

Keywords: Cross-Border M&A, Agency Conflicts, Stock Market Reaction, M&A Announcement Returns, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

JEL Classification: H25, G34, F23, M40

Suggested Citation:

Pflitsch, Max, Investors’ assessment of cross-border M&A – What drives announcement returns post-TCJA? (October 7, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4145698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4145698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: The effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
G Alexandridis , N Antypas , N Travlos
Value creation from M&As: New evidence
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 45 , p. 632 - 650 Posted: 2017
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Where will they go if we go territorial? Dividend exemption and the location decisions of US multinational corporations
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 787 - 809 Posted: 2001
H Amberger , L Robinson
The initial effect of US tax reform on foreign acquisitions
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
RANK
293,720
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies