Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Havens and Reputational Costs

56 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2022 Last revised: 9 Dec 2024

Adrienne DePaul

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

In 2017, the European Commission (EC) published a list of non-cooperative tax havens. We study whether country-level tourism and foreign direct investment (FDI) change as a result of this list. Consistent with a reputational cost of the EC’s “name and shame” campaign, there is a modest reduction in EU tourism among listed countries compared to unlisted ones. This relative reduction is concentrated among tourists from countries that view cheating on taxes as less justifiable. In contrast, listed countries experience a general increase in FDI following the list, a benefit potentially offsetting the costs of reduced tourism. 

Keywords: Tax havens, reputational costs, foreign direct investment

JEL Classification: F4, G38, H20

Suggested Citation:

DePaul, Adrienne and Murphy, Frank and Vernon, Mary, Tax Havens and Reputational Costs (December 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4147778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4147778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
M D Alvarez , S Campo
The influence of political conflicts on country image and intention to visit: A study of Israel's image
Tour. Manag , volume 40 , p. 70 - 78 Posted: 2014
H Arain , L Han , A Sharif , M Meo
Investigating the effect of inbound tourism on FDI: The importance of quantile estimations
Tour. Econ , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 682 - 703 Posted: 2020
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax Boycotts
Account. Rev , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
V Atanasov , B Black
Shock-Based Causal Inference in Corporate Finance and Accounting Research
Crit. Financ. Rev , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,220
RANK
249,052
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies