Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion - measures and empirical evidence

54 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022

Simona Gabriela Masca

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Andrada Iulia Botca

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: June 23, 2021

Abstract

This study deals with tax evasion problem which produce major concerns within Europe and globally too. Which is the nature of this phenomenon, which are the causes and tax avoidance's implications are all important questions to address. The theoretical background approaches the basic fiscal notions related to tax evasion. The empirical part firstly points out the tax evasion problem in the European environment. Measures of tax evasion approximated by revenue losses are captured within a trend analyses for EU countries, based on data collected from various sources (Eurostat, World Bank, European Commission). The second empirical part is dedicated to highlight the results of a survey on the perception upon the tax evasion occurrence, addressed to Belgian and Romanian tax payers.



Keywords: tax evasion, offshore wealth, survey, European Union

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Masca, Simona Gabriela and Botca, Andrada Iulia, Tax Evasion - measures and empirical evidence (June 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4155938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A new Investigation Exposes a Rogue Offshore Industry. International Consortium of Investigative Journalists Posted: 2016-04-03
Ana-Maria Tătoiu
Evaziunea fiscală -O abordare juridico-economică Posted: 2020
Alina M Bîrză
Evaluarea Economiei Informale. Corupția și evaziunea fiscală, Centrul de Informare și Documentare Economică, București. CIA -The 2008 world factbook Comisia Europeană -Taxes in Europe
Credit Suisse
Gh. GheorghiuD. D. Şaguna, Drept financiar şi fiscal , volume II Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
484,258
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies