Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Corporate Tax Paradox

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 42, No. 1, 2022

36 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022

Israel Klein

Ariel University - Department of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: July 6, 2022

Abstract

In their financial statements, publicly traded companies are required to disclose any exposure to tax positions managers took while knowing the positions were not expected to sustain a possible audit and thus may result in additional tax being paid by the corporation (“unsustainable positions”).

At the same time, the IRS has made it a requirement for all corporations with over $10 million in assets to provide a concise description in their tax return of every unsustainable position disclosed in the statements.

The quantitative information about unsustainable positions disclosed in the statements, taken together with their concise description provided in the returns, presumably allows the IRS to target companies with high exposure to unsustainable positions, to challenge these positions and collect the tax.

Nevertheless, findings show unsustainable positions are not being challenged and actually, the report of such positions increases annually. Moreover, managers of publicly traded corporations continue to report new positions in their returns and are not deterred by a possible audit triggered by their disclosure. This article is the first to shed light on this corporate tax paradox.

Using an innovative empirical study, the article argues that the paradox between the extensive information available to the IRS concerning unsustainable positions and the lack of consequent adequate tax collection, can be explained by positions being reported in foreign jurisdictions and in violation of tax codes in non-U.S. jurisdictions. This indicates problematic behavior by U.S. multinational entities (MNEs) that report such unsustainable positions in jurisdictions where they are not locally reported/disclosed and remain unenforceable.

The article further discusses the study’s implications for the U.S. responsibility to inform foreign regimes about domestic corporations’ reporting of unsustainable tax positions and argues that under current international tax conventions which the U.S. has ratified, once information becomes known to the IRS, the Service must inform foreign treaty members about unsustainable positions reported by U.S. corporations in violation of their domestic tax code.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Tax Planning, Tax positions, IRS, MNEs tax, International Taxation, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: k34

Suggested Citation:

Klein, Israel, The Corporate Tax Paradox (July 6, 2022). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 42, No. 1, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4155414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Evasion With Respect To Taxes On Income , U S .-Pak , Xvi
146 UNITED STATES MODEL INCOME TAX CONVENTION, art
147 CONVENTION ON MUTUAL ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE IN TAX MATTERS Posted: 1957-07-01
See
The Convention is the most comprehensive multilateral instrument available for all forms of tax co-operation to tackle tax evasion and avoidance
Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, OECD.COM Posted: 2021-08-20
E G
156 See Switzerland Defines Its Position in the Court Proceeding Against UBS, SWITZERLAND FEDERAL OFFICE OF JUSTICE , p. 8 - 21864 Posted: 2008-12-08
JUSTICE Posted: 2009-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
RANK
434,536
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies