Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rising Inequality of Western Tax Systems: Austria as Example of the Transformation of Income based Tax into a Consumption based Tax

17 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022

Anna-Maria Anderwald

University of Graz

Date Written: July 8, 2022

Abstract

Most tax systems in the European Union are basically designed as a mixed system concerning the tax base, so also in Austria. It is in many ways a hybrid between an income-based and a consumption-based system. The Austrian tax system, together with many other western tax systems, is moving increasingly towards a consumption-based tax system. International tax competition – along with social change – has contributed to increased consumption-oriented elements in our tax system. This trend has many different manifestations: the shift in tax burdens from direct income taxes to indirect consumption taxes (especially to VAT), the cut of corporate income tax rates, and the implementation of dual income tax elements with reduced rates for capital or invested income. When making such changes, the effects that increased consumption orientation has on the tax system and, in particular, the distribution of the tax burden in society, must be taken into account. This article focuses on how Austrian tax system, as an example for many other western tax systems, is moving towards consumption as a base of taxation before examining the possibility of wealth accumulation and the resulting inequality of distribution.

Keywords: consumption orientation, inequality, ability-to-pay principle, consumption

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Anderwald, Anna-Maria, Rising Inequality of Western Tax Systems: Austria as Example of the Transformation of Income based Tax into a Consumption based Tax (July 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4157677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Tina Ehrke-Rabel , Digitalisierung Und Steuerpolitik
Blockchained? Digitalisierung und Wirtschafts-Politik: Digitalisierung und Wirtschafts-Politik Posted: 2020
Paolo Piantavigna
Tax Competition and Tax Coordination in Aggressive Tax Planning: A False Dichotomy
World Tax Journal , volume 477 Posted: 2017
Tsilly Dagan
International Tax Policy: Between Competition and Cooperation Posted: 2018
Joseph E Stiglitz
The price of inequality , volume XXVIII Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
786
RANK
576,212
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies