Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Telework: The Impacts of State Income Taxes in a Work-from-Home Economy

48 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2022 Last revised: 30 Dec 2022

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Jan K. Brueckner

University of California, Irvine - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 14, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the interstate effects of decentralized taxation and spending when individuals can work from home (WFH). Because WFH decouples population and employment, the analysis of tax impacts on state populations, employment levels, wages and housing prices is radically different than in the standard model where individuals live and work in the same state. Which state can tax teleworkers---leading to either source or residence taxation---matters for tax impacts under WFH. Our main findings, which pertain to the employment and wage effects of WFH, show that a shift from a non-WFH economy to WFH reduces employment and raises the wage in high-tax states, with larger effects under source taxation. Once WHF is established, an increase in a state's tax rate either reduces employment further while raising the wage (source taxation) or leaves the labor market unaffected (residence taxation). We show that only the residence-taxation equilibrium is efficient.

Keywords: taxes, telework, source principle, residence principle, mobility, incidence

JEL Classification: K34, J61, H24, H71, R50

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Brueckner, Jan K., Taxes and Telework: The Impacts of State Income Taxes in a Work-from-Home Economy (July 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4162196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Poland/Germany , France / Hungary/Austria , Belgium
But local (municipal/county/school) income taxes, which can vary substantial within metro areas, 37 are themselves common around the world, being found in the United States, Denmark, Switzerland, Finland and Italy, among others. Moreover, for our purposes, localities differ (like states) in how they tax interjurisdictional workers. For example, in the U.S., some cities operate local payroll taxes that act as source-based taxes for teleworkers. Other cities acknowledge that these income taxes fund public services primarily for residents and thus apply local income taxes only to resident workers or let nonresident workers pay a preferential tax rate. Hybrid telework arrangements (where time is split between home and the office) create another possible complication
Local and international mobility While throughout the paper, we have focused on jurisdictions as states, these jurisdictions could be localities or countries
Prior to the emergence of telework, several studies found that municipal income taxes are important for the residential location decisions of individuals Posted: 2006
Ole Agersnap , Owen Zidar
The Tax Elasticity of Capital Gains and Revenue-Maximizing Rates
American Economic Review: Insights , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 416 Posted: 2021
David R Agrawal , Kenneth Tester
The Effect of Taxes on Where Superstars Work Posted: 2021
Load more
3 Citations
Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh
The remote work revolution: Impact on real estate values and the urban environment: 2023 AREUEA Presidential Address
Real Estate Economics , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 7 Posted: 2023
Crossref
David R. Agrawal , Dirk Foremny
Redistribution In A Globalized World
Jahrbücher für Nationalökonomie und Statistik , volume 242 , issue 5-6 , p. 551 Posted: 2022
Crossref
David R. Agrawal , Iuliia Shybalkina
Online Shopping Can Redistribute Local Tax Revenue from Urban to Rural America
57 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2022 · Last revised: 31 Dec 2022 · Downloads: 227
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
123,650
3 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies