Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling Distortionary Taxation

Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 95

26 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2022

Panagiotis Chronis

Bank of Greece - Economic Research Department

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

There has been a lot of discussion recently regarding the macroeconomic consequences of a distortionary taxation system. However the way this distortionary taxation scheme or instrument is modeled in macroeconomic analysis, as well as the ability of these models to capture the effects implied by this distortionary taxation system, is subject to criticism. This work provides a formal analysis in an attempt to build a methodological tool (i.e. a functional form), in order to capture the distortionary consequences of the tax system. This tool could be a useful instrument in economic analysis regarding the effects of a distortionary taxation system, and its relation to the other macroeconomic variables, like for example debt, deficit, and inflation.

Keywords: Distortionary Taxation; Income Tax; Tax Revenue; Tax evasion; Tax Compliance; Dynamic path of debt

JEL Classification: C00; H30; H20; H26; H24; H60; E62; B41

Suggested Citation:

Chronis, Panagiotis, Modeling Distortionary Taxation (March 1, 2009). Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 95, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4165723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4165723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M G Allingman , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Andreoni , B Erand , J Feinstain
Tax compliance
Journal of Economic Literature , volume XXXVI , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
Lectures on public economics Posted: 1980
R J Barro
On the determination of public debt
Journal of Political Economy , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 940 - 971 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies