Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion in Greece: An Overview

Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 35, Article 2

10 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022

Melina Vasardani

Bank of Greece

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

This article presents evidence of the existence and magnitude of tax evasion in Greece, as derived from the analysis of tax data for the year 2009. The problem is chronic and widespread, demonstrating serious weaknesses in the tax collection mechanism both for direct and indirect taxes. Dealing effectively with the complex phenomenon of tax evasion requires determination and broad, collaborative and systematic effort, focusing on the following key policy axes: (a) simplify legislation and streamline the regulatory framework, (b) restructure and mobilize tax administration and (c) change tax mentality and the tax incentive system for consistency and compliance.



Keywords: tax evasion, tax collection, shadow economy, direct taxes, indirect taxes

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Vasardani, Melina, Tax Evasion in Greece: An Overview (June 1, 2011). Bank of Greece Economic Bulletin, Issue 35, Article 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
A Balfousias
∆ιαχειριστικό κόστος του ελληνικού φορολογικού συστήµατος [Management cost of the Greek taxation system], Centre of Planning and Economic Research Posted: 1998
D Enste , F Schneider
Increasing shadow economies all over the world -Fiction or reality?
Study on indirect measurement methods for undeclared work in the EU , volume 26 Posted: 1998
European Employment Observatory Review: Self-employment in Europe Posted: 2010-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
843
RANK
243,680
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies