Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Uncertainty Affect Corporate Innovation? Evidence from China

63 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 Apr 2023

Wanyi Chen

SILC business school, Shanghai University

Liguang Zhang

Sichuan Agricultural University - School of Management

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

Tax incentives have become an important driving force for enterprises to ease financing constraints and promote innovation. Several existing studies focus on the tax reduction effect of corporate tax incentive policies and pay less attention to the risks engendered by tax uncertainty. This study uses sample data of A-share listed companies on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges from 2008 to 2020 to explore whether the predictability of corporate tax burdens has become a key restrictive factor for corporate innovation. The study finds that tax uncertainty significantly inhibits corporate innovation, and its influence channels operate mainly through corporate financing constraints and managerial shortsighted behavior. Further heterogeneity analysis finds that a better regional economic system environment, greater tax effort, and digital transformation could restrain the negative impact of tax uncertainty on enterprise innovation. This study focuses on the impact of tax risks arising from the tax reform process on enterprise innovation and proposes a multidimensional measurement method to identify corporate tax uncertainty. The results expand the economic consequences of tax uncertainty and enrich the literature on the factors influencing corporate innovation behavior. This study also expands the research on tax reform and provides an innovative perspective for interpreting enterprises’ tax mysteries. Furthermore, it provides practical implications for tax reduction reforms and guidelines for enterprise innovation.

Keywords: tax uncertainty; tax reform; corporate innovation; financing constraints; managerial shortsighted behavior; prevention effect

JEL Classification: E62; G31; G38; H21

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Wanyi and Zhang, Liguang, Does Tax Uncertainty Affect Corporate Innovation? Evidence from China (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167129 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4167129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
J L Abernathy , A R Finley , E T Rapley , J Stekelberg
External auditor responses to tax risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , p. 0148558X - 1986782 Posted: 2019
H Amberger
Tax uncertainty and dividend payouts
Posted: 2017-04
American Taxation Association (ATA)
Midyear Meeting Proceedings Posted: 2014-02-21
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
347,495
2 Citations
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies