Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ZEW-EviSTA: A Microsimulation Model of the German Tax and Transfer System

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 22-026

65 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022

Florian Buhlmann

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Michael Hebsaker

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Tobias Kreuz

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Jakob Schmidhaeuser

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Sebastian Siegloch

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Holger Stichnoth

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This article describes ZEW-EviSTA®, the microsimulation model developed and used at ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research in Mannheim. The model simulates the German tax and transfer system using household micro level data. By estimating fiscal effects, labor market outcomes as well as distributional impacts the model allows for a comprehensive ex ante analysis of reform proposals. Heterogeneity analyses targeting specific subgroups of the population are feasible, too. The present article describes which data sources are used for the simulation, how key features of the German tax and transfer system are implemented, which simulation methods are employed to analyze policy changes and how the model is validated against official statistics. Moreover, by providing examples of the outputs which ZEW-EviSTA generates the paper gives an idea of the questions that can be answered using the model.

Keywords: microsimulation, tax system, tax policy, labour market, labour supply, labour demand, Germany, policy analysis

JEL Classification: D58, H20, J22, J23

Suggested Citation:

Buhlmann, Florian and Hebsaker, Michael and Kreuz, Tobias and Schmidhaeuser, Jakob. and Siegloch, Sebastian and Stichnoth, Holger, ZEW-EviSTA: A Microsimulation Model of the German Tax and Transfer System (2022). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 22-026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4168869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
R Aaberge , U Colombino , C O'donoghue
Labour Supply Models
Contributions to Economic Analysis , volume 293 , p. 167 - 221 Posted: 2014
R Aaberge , U Colombino , S Strøm
Labour Supply in Italy: An Empirical Analysis of Joint Household Decisions, with Taxes and Quantity Constraints
Journal of Applied Econometrics , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 403 - 422 Posted: 1999
R Aaberge , J K Dagsvik , S Strøm , S Strom
Labor Supply Responses and Welfare Effects of Tax Reforms
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 97 , issue 4 Posted: 1995
H Alda , S Bender , H Gartner
The Linked Employer-employee Dataset of the IAB (LIAB) Posted: 2005
Load more
3 Citations
Michael Hübler , Malin Wiese , Marius Braun , Johannes Damster
The distributional effects of CO2 pricing at home and at the border on German income groups
Resource and Energy Economics , volume 77 , p. 101435 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Cara Röhner
Von Repräsentation zu demokratischer Gleichheit
Der Staat , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 421 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Maximilian Blömer , Hans-Martin von Gaudecker , Michael Hebsaker , Holger Stichnoth
Ökonomische Aspekte der Kindergrundsicherung
Sozialer Fortschritt , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 281 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
564,240
3 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Planning eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies