Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Tax Disclosures and Investor Perceptions

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 94

50 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 Sep 2025

Bart Dierynck

Tilburg University

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Victor van Pelt

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: March 09, 2025

Abstract

Regulators are increasingly considering and mandating additional public tax disclosures to enhance transparency and promote scrutiny of corporate tax avoidance. We conducted three experiments to examine how such disclosures influence retail investors’ perceptions of firms with identical effective tax rates but different tax avoidance methods. In the first experiment, participants evaluated whether firms were paying their fair share of taxes. We find that additional public tax disclosures reduce retail investors’ tendency to differentiate between tax avoidance methods, subsequently affecting their willingness to invest. Specifically, participants use easy-to-process summary tax information in the additional public tax disclosure as a heuristic shortcut. The second and third experiments demonstrate that modifying the disclosure format and prompting participants to assess tax aggressiveness rather than fairness can mitigate these adverse effects. However, none of the cases significantly alter participants’ perceptions compared to the baseline condition of no public tax disclosure. Overall, our findings provide insights into the design of, and the debate surrounding, additional public tax disclosures

Keywords: Public tax disclosure, corporate taxation, tax transparency, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: C91, H26, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dierynck, Bart and Jacob, Martin and Müller, Maximilian A. and Peters, Christian P. H. and van Pelt, Victor, Public Tax Disclosures and Investor Perceptions (March 09, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 94, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4173175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4173175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
D J Ahler , C E Roush , G Sood
The micro-task market for lemons: Data quality on Amazon's Mechanical Turk
Political Science Research and Methods , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2025
P Antonetti , M Anesa
Consumer reactions to corporate tax strategies: The role of political ideology
Journal of Business Research , volume 74 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2017
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax boycotts , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
Australian Senate
Revised explanatory memorandum
Tax laws amendment Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,422
RANK
105,672
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies