Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does a Net Wealth Tax Affect Overall Tax Collection?

15 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2022

Carlos Contreras

Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM)

Julio Angulo

Independent

Date Written: July 27, 2022

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the conditions under which the increase in revenue that would resulting from the introduction of a net wealth tax and an exit tax would be offset by the loss of revenue from personal income tax and consumption tax due to tax-induced emigration. In the proposed model, wealth formation is endogenous and depends on income level, propensity to consumption and rate of return on investment. The paper finds that, for a given tax structure, the impact of the introduction of a net wealth tax on overall tax revenue is positive or negative depending mainly on two factors: (i) the distribution of taxpayers by income level, and (ii) the cost of adapting to the new tax residence, which determines the proportion of taxpayers who migrate. A numerical simulation is provided to approximate the magnitude of different impacts arising from of the introduction of the net wealth tax.

Keywords: Net wealth tax, tax collection, tax-induced emigration

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Contreras, Carlos and Angulo, Julio, How Does a Net Wealth Tax Affect Overall Tax Collection? (July 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4174168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4174168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D Albalate , G Bel
Regulating concessions of toll motorways: an empirical study on fixed vs variable term contracts
Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 229 Posted: 2009
L E Brandão , E Saraiva
The option value of government guarantees in infrastructure projects
Construction Management and Economics , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 1171 - 1180 Posted: 2008
R Pt) Brealey , S Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance , volume 6 Posted: 2000
N Carbonara , R Pellegrino
Revenue guarantee in public-private partnerships: a win-win model
Construction Management and Economics , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
640,442
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies