Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 1: Overview

Ahmed A. Altawyan and Steven C. Wrappe, Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 1: Overview, 51 Tax Mgmt. Int’l J. No. 8 (Aug. 5, 2022).

7 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2022 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

Ahmed Altawyan أحمد الطويان

Saudi Electronic University

Steven C. Wrappe

New York University (NYU)

Date Written: August 5, 2022

Abstract

As part of an increased openness to international investment and the resulting need to address international tax issues, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) recently adopted transfer pricing regulations consistent with global norms. Due to the newness of these regulations in the KSA tax system and the general difficulty of resolving transfer pricing disputes, the KSA continues to review the experience of other countries with transfer pricing rules, enforcement and disputes.

This is the first of three papers that will examine the current and anticipated problems with the application of transfer pricing rules and explore potential methods to improve the transfer pricing dispute process in the KSA. This paper will explore the context and motivation for the adoption of transfer pricing rules by the KSA, the rules themselves, and the general enforcement approach. The second and third papers will focus on the experiences of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) of the United States (“U.S.”) resolving and avoiding transfer pricing disputes and transfer pricing penalties and compliance incentives regarding transfer pricing documentation to see what procedures the KSA should consider adopting.

Suggested Citation:

Altawyan, Ahmed and Wrappe, Steven C., Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 1: Overview (August 5, 2022). Ahmed A. Altawyan and Steven C. Wrappe, Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 1: Overview, 51 Tax Mgmt. Int’l J. No. 8 (Aug. 5, 2022)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4181281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
See Saudi Income tax law arts , volume 57
Saudi Oecd , Arabia
Transfer Pricing Country Profile Posted: 2022-06
Roger Fisher , William Ury
The more people involved in a negotiation, the more serious the drawbacks to positional bargaining
Treas , Reg
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
708
RANK
580,215
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies