Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Mandatory Disclosure of Corporate Tax Returns on Reporting Bias

55 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023 Last revised: 24 Sep 2023

Eric J. Allen

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Henry L. Friedman

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Anderson School of Management

Aydin Uysal

The Charles Schwab Corporation

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

What effect does the mandatory disclosure of corporate tax return information have on firms and investors? To answer this question, we build a structural model of reporting bias, which we test with a unique dataset of Turkish firms that have been mandated to publicly disclose their tax returns since 2009. In reduced-form analyses, we find that both book and tax income numbers can help predict firm performance and that investors react to both the initial tax and subsequent book income reporting. Book-tax differences that convey incremental information are particularly relevant. Structural estimates and counterfactuals are consistent with capital market incentives encouraging upward tax bias, on average, with substantial heterogeneity across subsamples defined by effective tax rates, firm size, and sector. 

Keywords: taxation, bias, disclosure, mandatory disclosure of tax returns, book-tax difference

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Eric J. and Friedman, Henry L. and Uysal, Aydin, The Effect of the Mandatory Disclosure of Corporate Tax Returns on Reporting Bias (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4185130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4185130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S K Acaravci , Y Karaomer
Fama-French five factor model: evidence from Turkey
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 130 - 137 Posted: 2017
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-Tax conformity, earnings persistence, and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
B Ayers , S Laplante , Mcguire
Credit Ratings and Taxes: The Effect of Book-Tax Differences on Ratings Changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2010
Baker Mckenzie
Cross-Border Listings Guide -Borsa Istanbul Posted: 2024-08
Load more
2 Citations
Paul Demeré
Is tax return information useful to equity investors?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1413 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yong Qiang Chen , Flora Niu , Tao Zeng
The Predictive Ability of Taxable Income for Future Performance: The Impact of High Tax Planning*
Accounting Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 101 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
RANK
275,235
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies