Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Firms’ Taxpaying Behaviour Using Artificial Neural Networks: The Case of Indonesia

53 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2022

Arifin Rosid

Directorate General of Taxation; Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 9, 2022

Abstract

Due to the complexity of tax and the time and resources needed to monitor and examine tax returns, tax noncompliance is challenging to detect. Big data and sophisticated analytics might help tax authorities extract actionable data insights. Using income tax record data, this paper employs an Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) model to predict and discover the determinants of firms’ taxpaying behaviour. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this study is the first to apply ANN to exploit the taxpaying behaviour of Indonesian firms. This work examined 538,254 firm-level administrative data across fiscal years 2014 and 2019 to predict the magnitude of tax payment based on seven variables of interest: types of tax returns, gross profit margin, operating profit margin, other business income ratio, other business expense ratio, positive fiscal adjustment ratio, and negative fiscal adjustment ratio. Multi-Layer Perceptron Neural Network-based models were trained to predict three categories of taxpaying measurement—i.e, Corporate Tax Turnover Ratio (CTTOR)—across varying magnitudes of annual turnover. The models predicted the firms' taxpaying behaviour with an average accuracy rate above 92%. The implementation of artificial intelligence also allows this study to identify heterogeneous channels responsible for firms’ taxpaying behaviour across groups. This study finds other business income and positive fiscal adjustment to be significant predictors of taxpaying behaviour for small and medium firms. In contrast, operating profit margin, other business expenses, and negative fiscal adjustment are prominent predictors for large corporations. The findings will assist decision-makers in tax administrations about potential areas of misreporting, enabling them to develop evidence-based and effective policy actions.

Keywords: corporate taxpayers, tax compliance, taxpaying behaviour, artificial neural networks

JEL Classification: D22, H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Rosid, Arifin, Predicting Firms’ Taxpaying Behaviour Using Artificial Neural Networks: The Case of Indonesia (August 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4185966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4185966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
F Reference Agostinelli , M Hoffman , P Sadowski , P Baldi
Learning Activation Functions to Improve Deep Neural Networks. arXiv Posted: 2014
J Alm
Can Indonesia Reform its Tax System Posted: 1906
V Aryadoust , P Baghaei
Does EFL Readers' Lexical And Grammatical Knowledge Predict Their Reading Ability? Insights From A Perceptron Artificial Neural Network Study
Educational Assessment , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 156 Posted: 2016
Asian Development , Bank
A Comparative Analysis of Tax Administration in Asia and the Pacific. Asian Development Bank 6 ADB Avenue Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
538
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
118,619
4 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies