Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State-Dependent Effects of Tax Changes in Germany and the United Kingdom

45 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2022

Bernd Hayo

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics

Sascha Mierzwa

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics

Date Written: August 17, 2022

Abstract

We study state-dependent effects of narratively identified tax shocks in Germany and the UK over the period 1974Q1–2018Q4 using local projections. In addition, we distinguish between aggregated and disaggregated tax types (direct and indirect taxes) as well as look for possible asymmetries between tax hikes and tax cuts. We find a number of differences across the business cycle, and between sample countries, tax types, and direction of tax changes. For instance, aggregated tax cuts initially have a larger effect during times of nonrecession in Germany, whereas we find no state-dependent effects for the UK. When disaggregating tax types, German indirect tax cuts only appear expansionary during downturns, whereas the effect is positive throughout the business cycle in the UK. Furthermore, we find different reactions when considering tax cuts and hikes individually: tax hikes can be expansionary in Germany (UK) when implemented during non-recessionary (recessionary) periods whereas they are contractionary during recessions (non-recessions). When considering tax cuts, German GDP rises only when cuts are enacted in times of non-recession, whereas in the UK, the reactions is positive in either case and mostly symmetric. All these findings are robust to various changes in the econometric setup.

Keywords: Fiscal policy, tax policy, legislated tax changes, state dependence, direct taxes, indirect taxes, asymmetric effects, Germany, United Kingdom, local projections, narrative approach

JEL Classification: E62, E63, H20, H30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hayo, Bernd and Mierzwa, Sascha, State-Dependent Effects of Tax Changes in Germany and the United Kingdom (August 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4192751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4192751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Alesina , C Favero , F Giavazzi
The Output Effect of Fiscal Consolidation Plans
Journal of International Economics , volume 96 , p. S19 - S42 Posted: 2015
M Alloza
Is Fiscal Policy More Effective in Uncertain Times or During Recessions? Banco de Espana Working Paper Posted: 1730
S Ardagna
Fiscal Stabilizations: When do they work and why
European Economic Review , volume 48 , issue 5 , p. 1047 - 1074 Posted: 2004
A J Auerbach , Y Gorodnichenko
Measuring the Ouput Responses to Fiscal Policy
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
732
RANK
556,623
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies