Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Evaluation of the International Impact of the Global Minimum Tax

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 6 ; 15 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Carlo Garbarino

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 28, 2022

Abstract

This study provides a critical evaluation of the global minimum tax within the framework of the so-called “two-pillar” solution, addressing in particular its distributional effects, through a reconceptualization of the harmful tax competition policy challenge as a collective action problem. In doing so, it juxtaposes the potential outcome of the two-pillar initiative to the international tax implications prospectively arising from the proposed US corporate tax reform.

Full-text Paper

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, A Critical Evaluation of the International Impact of the Global Minimum Tax (June 28, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 6 ; 15 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4192250
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies