Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Most Favoured Nation Clauses in Tax Treaties: Comparative Analysis and Main Issues

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 139-184

Posted: 23 Nov 2022

Nupur Jalan

Independent

Gaetano Manzi

Independent

Gert Greve

Independent

Date Written: February 2, 2022

Abstract

Over time, the use of most favoured nation clauses has seen widespread adoption in double tax treaties, especially in those agreed with developing countries. The use of such clauses, however, does not appear to have been supported frequently by tax policies and/or careful ad hoc analysis, e.g. on the structure, wording and consequences of these provisions in the relevant tax treaty networks. The lack of a model clause in the OECD and UN Model Conventions, and the proliferation of many variants could have played a role in this regard. Because of this, the application of this clause still today triggers many issues that can prevent, for example, its clear and correct interpretation and application and the enjoyment of legitimate treaty benefits by taxpayers or may entail challenges for treaty negotiations. These issues may relate mainly to the nature of such clauses and the policies behind them, as well as to the lack of a clear wording that can facilitate their application in different ways. In light of the above, the purpose of this article is to outline certain critical situations that could occur when applying such clauses. The analysis was conducted after assessing the historical background of most favoured nation clauses and carrying out a comparative analysis through the different variants used in the Chilean, Indian and Italian tax treaty network to assess if different approaches have been adopted so far by countries with different economic, legal and tax backgrounds.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: MFN, tax treaty, developing countries, tax policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jalan, Nupur and Manzi, Gaetano and Greve, Gert, Most Favoured Nation Clauses in Tax Treaties: Comparative Analysis and Main Issues (February 2, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 139-184 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies