Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Move Forward with Country-by-Country Reporting? : A Qualitative Content Analysis of the Stakeholders’ Comments in the OECD 2020 Review

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 261-284

Posted: 28 Nov 2022 Last revised: 2 Dec 2022

Raphael Müller

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Miles Schoenrock

Independent

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: May 24, 2022

Abstract

Country-by-country reporting (CbCR) has become the global standard on corporate tax transparency within only 6 years after the release of the OECD BEPS reports in 2015. Recently, the European Union extended the scope of CbCR towards public disclosure of the reports. Despite the widespread adoption of CbCR, its strengths and limitations are still controversially discussed. This article investigates whether the current OECD approach is fit for purpose and which modifications would improve the consistency and effectiveness of the reports. The analysis builds on a qualitative assessment of stakeholder comments received by the OECD during a public consultation process which was part of the major 2020 review on CbCR. The authors critically review the proposed adjustments as well as current developments and derive recommendations for moving forward. The key recommendation is that the OECD should focus on technical adjustments such as a multi-year approach and harmonized notification requirements. However, major conceptual changes should be streamlined with the outcomes of the negotiations on a global minimum tax to reduce complexity and improve legal certainty for affected firms.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: CbCR, tax transparency, BEPS, global minimum tax, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD)

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Raphael and Schoenrock, Miles and Spengel, Christoph, How to Move Forward with Country-by-Country Reporting? : A Qualitative Content Analysis of the Stakeholders’ Comments in the OECD 2020 Review (May 24, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 261-284 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194628
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
286
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies