Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Korean Investment in Tax Havens Since 2000

Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade Research Paper No. 20/IER/25/3-4

KIET Industrial Economic Review, Vol. 25 No. 3, pp. 44-56

13 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022 Last revised: 3 May 2023

Jongchol Moon

Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade

Date Written: June 30, 2020

Abstract

The attempt by corporations and individuals to evade tax imposition by moving wealth and capital to tax havens has long been a problem for governments and national economies. Tax haven investment for the purpose of tax evasion has been criticized in that it causes distortions in the distribution of wealth, increasing disparities between the rich and the poor. In addition, the capital stock sheltering in tax havens does not contribute to productivity of the economy. Therefore, governments and international organizations have made efforts to monitor and restrict the flow of capital into tax havens.

The OECD began conducting research on tax havens as early as the mid-1980s, and the EU is currently strengthening regulation on capital flows into tax havens. Outside officialdom, non-government organizations part of the tax justice movement are doing their own research and urging governments to take bolder action. However, these attempts thus far have not been successful and the volume of capital stock in tax havens has consistently grown and Korea is no exception to this trend. As capital flows into tax havens have increased, it has become necessary to grasp the reality of capital flight to tax havens in a comprehensive manner.

Yet there is no extant research on the Korean case, although the government has occasionally performed spot investigations. In this article, I want to describe the macroeconomic characteristics of capital flight into tax havens that takes the form of overseas investment by Korean firms and individuals using data on outward direct investment. In doing so, I want to help illuminate the potential problem of tax evasion risk in Korea that assumes the form of overseas investment.

Keywords: tax havens, tax shelters, tax avoidance, capital flight, secrecy jurisdictions, Korea

JEL Classification: H26, F21

Suggested Citation:

Moon, Jongchol, Korean Investment in Tax Havens Since 2000 (June 30, 2020). Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade Research Paper No. 20/IER/25/3-4, KIET Industrial Economic Review, Vol. 25 No. 3, pp. 44-56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4194321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
509
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies