Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Law and Policy of Vat Tourist Tax Refund Schemes : A Comparative Analysis

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 285-330

Posted: 28 Nov 2022

Wang tingting

Economic Law School of Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Miranda Stewart

University of Melbourne - Law School; New York University School of Law; Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 11, 2022

Abstract

Many forms of value added tax (VAT) or goods and services tax (GST) include a tax refund scheme for goods acquired by tourists when they visit a jurisdiction. These schemes have not been widely researched, and this article aims to fill this gap by providing a detailed discussion of the policy, legal design and administration of tourist tax refund schemes. The authors identify three main rationales for such schemes: (i) the destination principle, which is the jurisdictional basis for most VATs; (ii) the goal of providing an incentive to the tourism industry; and (iii) the principle of equity, or fairness. The authors then explore policy issues and risks for the design and operation of the main tourist tax refund schemes around the world. They analyse the main elements of the European Union (EU) VAT refund scheme, where the concept originated, and then do a detailed comparison of the design and administration of such schemes with different features GST in Australia and VAT in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). The analysis reveals that countries have quite varied design elements in their tourism refund schemes and face different operational challenges in their implementation. The authors identify ways to improve the design and administration of the schemes in Australia and China in light of the analysis in this article.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: VAT, GST, refund, tourism, tax incentive

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

tingting, Wang and Stewart, Miranda, The Law and Policy of Vat Tourist Tax Refund Schemes : A Comparative Analysis (April 11, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 285-330, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194595
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
410
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies