Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treaty Obstacles in Implementing the Pillar Two Global Minimum Tax Rules and a Possible Solution for Eliminating the Various Challenges

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 3-50

Posted: 23 Nov 2022

Vikram Chand

University of Lausanne

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Kinga Romanovska

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 21, 2022

Abstract

This article addresses the interaction between the global anti-base erosion rules (GloBE rules, namely, the income inclusion rule, IIR, and the undertaxed payments rule, UTPR) with tax treaties. In particular, the article analyses potential limitations to the application of the IIR by the provisions of article 9 of tax treaties. Further, the article investigates possible obstacles to the application of the IIR to tax treaties that contain tax sparing clauses. The article then conducts a similar analysis with respect to the UTPR, which is assessed from the perspective of article 9 and the non-discrimination provisions of article 24. Furthermore, the article explores whether importing article 9(1) into the list of exceptions to the saving clause would be appropriate, and the related consequences. Thereafter, the article gives an insight into the problem of tax treaty overrides which may arise if the Pillar Two rules are implemented in national legislation without making relevant changes to tax treaties. Moreover, this contribution also explores the dispute resolution instruments available to solve potential tax disputes that could arise when “taxation not in accordance with the convention” is detected, as well as other tax disputes that could arise from inconsistent application of the GloBE rules. The authors also highlight possible ramifications under non-tax agreements for such situations. In light of the strong arguments made in this article which indicate that conflicts could indeed arise and treaty overrides could occur, the authors put forth a solution in the form of a safeguard clause – as opposed to a saving clause or interpretative MAPs – that policymakers can incorporate in their treaty network to ensure that the GloBE rules can be applied without triggering frictions with tax treaty law. On the other hand, if such a clause is not inserted into tax treaties, then there is a concrete risk that an unforeseen obstacle of considerable magnitude could arise on the path of the Pillar Two initiative. Of course, the Pillar Two rules should be applied within the boundaries of the safeguard clause and if a state goes beyond its authorization, a conflict with the provisions of the treaty could once again arise. This could then possibly give the taxpayers access to MAPs for misapplication or inconsistent application of the Pillar Two rules. Needless to say, such a clause needs to be implemented through a Multilateral Agreement, which the authors discuss in this contribution. Finally, the authors also analyse selected treaty law-related discrimination issues linked to domestic minimum taxes that are being contemplated by several jurisdictions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GloBE Proposal (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), tax treaty, CFC, dispute resolution, tax sparing credit, MAP

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chand, Vikram and Turina, Alessandro and Romanovska, Kinga, Tax Treaty Obstacles in Implementing the Pillar Two Global Minimum Tax Rules and a Possible Solution for Eliminating the Various Challenges (February 21, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 1 ; p. 3-50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194579
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies