Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tonnage Tax Revisited: The Case of Greece During a Shipping Crisis and an Economic Crisis Period

Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 266

27 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2022

Stelios Panagiotou

Bank of Greece - Economic Research Department; University of the Aegean - Department of Shipping, Trade and Transport

Helen Thanopoulou

Aegean University

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

The research investigates the relative position of the Greek tonnage tax system internationally. The authors point that despite the regulatory framework remaining unchanged - since Greece was the first traditional maritime country to introduce this regime in the 1970s - total taxes paid by Greek shipping companies increased by almost tenfold since the start of the Greek economic crisis. Next, they investigate the sources and mechanisms for this rise pointing a. at the impact of voluntary commitments undertaken by the Greek ship-owning community in the period of the economic adjustment programs and b. at the extension of the tax base. Next, they analyze the comparative tax burden on specified vessel types under the Greek, EU and non-EU tonnage tax regimes. The analysis reaffirms that, while shipping tax regimes have converged internationally, there are still differences in the tonnage tax bill according to alternative principles. The paper concludes that while the Greek system is considered traditionally as favorable for companies, it has become less so in terms of international comparisons in recent years, favoring, however, state revenues through the shipping crisis since 2008. The authors suggest that tax incentives to ship-owning companies can vary according to whether maritime clusters, fleet competitiveness, short-term tax receipts or long-term tax receipts are selected as optimization target and point to areas of further research.

Keywords: Tonnage tax, ship taxation, Greek shipping, shipping fiscal impact

JEL Classification: H25, E63, R40, O57

Suggested Citation:

Panagiotou, Stelios and Thanopoulou, Helen, Tonnage Tax Revisited: The Case of Greece During a Shipping Crisis and an Economic Crisis Period (July 1, 2019). Bank of Greece Working Paper No. 266, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4197852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4197852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Bergantino , P Marlow
Factors influencing the choice of flag: empirical evidence
Maritime Policy and Management , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 157 - 174 Posted: 1998
M Brownrigg , G Dawe , M Mann , P Weston
Developments in UK shipping: the tonnage tax
Maritime Policy and Management , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 223 Posted: 2001
Deloitte
Shipping Tax Guide. Date of access: 21/11 Posted: 2015
B M Gardner , P B Marlow
An international comparison of the fiscal treatment of shipping
Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 397 - 415 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
RANK
434,536
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies