Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Credit Channel of Fiscal Policy Transmission

45 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2022 Last revised: 30 Sep 2022

Andrew Bird

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Stephen A. Karolyi

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Stefan Lewellen

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Thomas Ruchti

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: April 11, 2019

Abstract

We propose and test a new channel through which fiscal policy changes affect the supply of intermediated credit and the real economy. Lenders that have greater exposure to firms expected to repatriate a significant amount of foreign income as a result of a 2004-2005 U.S. tax holiday subsequently increase lending to other, purely domestic firms during the tax holiday, leading to higher investment at these firms. Our results suggest that fiscal policy changes can affect otherwise unrelated firms through general equilibrium financial sector spillovers.

Keywords: fiscal policy, AJCA, tax, tax holidays, banking, financial intermediation

JEL Classification: E44, E62, G21, G32, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Andrew and Karolyi, Stephen A. and Lewellen, Stefan and Ruchti, Thomas, The Credit Channel of Fiscal Policy Transmission (April 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4197433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4197433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Susan M Albring , Lillian F Mills , Kaye J Newberry
Do Debt Constraints Influence Firms Sensitivity to a Temporary Tax Holiday on Repatriations?
Journal of the American Tax Association , volume 33 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Laura Alfaro , Manuel García-Santana , Enrique Moral-Benito
On the Direct and Indirect Real Effects of Credit Supply Shocks Posted: 2019
Jason Allen , Teodora Paligorova
Bank Loans for Private and Public Firms in a Liquidity Crunch
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 18 , p. 106 - 116 Posted: 2015
Juliane Begenau
Capital Requirements, Risk Choice, and Liquidity Provision in a Business Cycle Model Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
901
RANK
409,562
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies