Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Casting Doubts on the Approach of Mirrlees to Optimal Taxation - A Technical Critique

49 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022

Maciej Konrad Dudek

University of Michigan, Department of Economics

Pawel Dudek

Independent

Konrad Walczyk

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Date Written: August 23, 2022

Abstract

We focus exclusively on preferences characterized by the absence of income effects. We argue that the approach of Mirrlees to optimal taxation is faulty as it fails to identify the true optimum of the optimal taxation problem. Furthermore, we argue that zero optimal marginal tax rates are generic and that the true optimal tax function takes the form of a step function. Our findings stem from a simple observation that calculus of variations methods employed by Mirrlees are inadequate in the context of optimal taxation as the level of utility - treated as the state variable in the Mirrlees model - is not physical in nature and thus allows for a richer set of variations than those implicitly imposed on by variational calculus.

Suggested Citation:

Dudek, Maciej Konrad and Dudek, Pawel and Walczyk, Konrad, Casting Doubts on the Approach of Mirrlees to Optimal Taxation - A Technical Critique (August 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4198228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Peter Diamond
Optimal Income Taxation: An Example with a U-Shaped Pattern for the Optimal Marginal Rates
American Economic Review , volume 88 , p. 83 - 95 Posted: 1998
Maciej K Dudek
On Ecient Taxation
Studia Ekonomiczne , volume 3 , p. 295 - 313 Posted: 2014
Udo Ebert
A Reexamination of the Optimal Nonlinear Income Tax
Journal of Public Economics , volume 49 , p. 47 - 73 Posted: 1992
I M Gelfand , S V Fomin
Calculus of Variations Posted: 1963
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
799,009
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies