Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance of Loss Firms

46 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022 Last revised: 10 Jun 2023

Casey M. Schwab

University of North Texas

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 2023

Abstract

This study examines tax avoidance among firms with persistent losses (“loss firms”). Using the methodology in Schwab, Stomberg, and Xia (2022), we identify tax avoidance activities from companies’ effective tax rate reconciliations. We report three findings. First, approximately 29 percent of loss firms engage in tax avoidance and the average tax benefit is over $3.5 million each year. Second, loss firms engage in tax avoidance when the expected economic benefits of doing so are greater, which suggests the tax avoidance is economically rational despite the presence of persistent losses. Third, tax avoidance among loss firms is positively associated with future profitability. Our study provides some of the first detailed empirical evidence about loss firms’ tax avoidance and should be of interest to researchers and policymakers as loss firms now comprise approximately 30 percent of the population of public firms.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, losses, incentives, marginal tax rates

Suggested Citation:

Schwab, Casey M. and Stomberg, Bridget and Xia, Junwei, Tax Avoidance of Loss Firms (June 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4198220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B C Ayers , J Jiang , S K Laplante
Taxable income as a performance measure: The effects of tax planning and earnings quality
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 54 Posted: 2009
J Blouin , J E Core , W Guay
Have the tax benefits of debt been overestimated
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 98 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 213 Posted: 2010
D M Christensen , D G Kenchington , R C Laux
How do most low ETR firms avoid paying taxes?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 570 - 606 Posted: 2022
R Clemons , Y Zhang
Using the linear cash taxes paid model in Accounting research: Developing a tax model that permits the inclusion of loss-years Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
151,925
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies