Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Taxes, Gross Hourly Wages, and the Anatomy of Behavioral Responses: Evidence from a Danish Tax Reform

IZA Discussion Paper No. 15502

47 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2022 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Kazuhiko Sumiya

Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (RIETI)

Jesper Bagger

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Abstract

This paper provides quasi-experimental evidence on the effects of income taxes on gross hourly wages by utilizing administrative data and a tax reform in Denmark. The reform introduced joint taxation to a middle tax bracket, bringing large changes to the tax system facing married couples. Using variation in spousal income for identification, we present non-parametric graphical evidence based on a difference-in-differences design among working married males. First, we find hetero- geneous effects across income levels. For low-income workers, taxes have negative and dynamic effects on wages. Their elasticity of wages (with respect to net-of-marginal-tax rates) is close to one. For higher-income workers, the effects are small and static, with an elasticity of approximately 0.2. Second, wages respond to taxes through human capital accumulation and job changes. Finally, with smaller magnitudes than wages, daily hours worked also respond negatively to taxes, which contrasts with the prediction from a standard labor supply-and-demand model.

Keywords: income taxation, administrative data, tax reforms, difference-in-differences, gross hourly wages, labor supply, human capital accumulation, job changes

JEL Classification: H22, H24, J22, J24, J30, J62

Suggested Citation:

Sumiya, Kazuhiko and Bagger, Jesper, Income Taxes, Gross Hourly Wages, and the Anatomy of Behavioral Responses: Evidence from a Danish Tax Reform. IZA Discussion Paper No. 15502, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Alberto Abadie , Alexis Diamond , Jens Hainmueller
Comparative Politics and the Synthetic Control Method
American Journal of Political Science , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2015
Ghazala Azmat
Incidence, salience, and spillovers: The direct and indirect effects of tax credits on wages
Quantitative Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 273 Posted: 2019
Jesper Bagger , Mads Hejlesen , Kazuhiko Sumiya , Rune Vejlin
Income Taxation and the Equilibrium Allocation of Labor Posted: 2018-06
Marianne Bertrand , Esther Duflo , Sendhil Mullainathan
How Much Should We Trust Differences-In-Differences Estimates?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
649
RANK
819,727
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies