Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Labor Share and Tax Havens: Things Are Not Always What They Seem

38 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2022

Margarita Lopez Forero

Université d'Evry Val d'Essonne; Université Paris Saclay

Date Written: July 26, 2021

Abstract

We use French firm-level data to study the role of multinational enterprises’ (MNEs) presence tax havens in determining the dynamics of the aggregate labor share and therefore, income inequalities between workers and capitalists. Given these firms’ weight in the economy, we find that tax haven presence of MNEs accounts for a 7.5% of the observed increase in the aggregate share of labor in France between 1997-2014. Implementing a difference-in-differences we analyze the effect of firm entry in tax havens on firms’ labor share of value added and each of its components. We find that average firm labor share in France experiences an increase by 2.2% over the immediate years following the establishment in a tax haven. We argue that the labor share of MNEs with presence in tax havens is overestimated given that tax optimization partly consists in artificially shifting profits to low tax jurisdictions, thus underestimating domestic value added, which experiences an average drop by 11.1%. Indeed, the labor share increases even if its numerator, total wage bill, decreases on average by 8.8% when MNEs enter a tax haven. Additionally, the total wage bill drop is explained by a strong decline in employment (-8.6%) rather than a decline on average firm wages, on which there is no statistically significant effect. This means that the effect of firms’ usage of tax havens on workers goes beyond the underestimation of their share of income. Finally, we implement a panel event study design to show that our estimates capture the tax entry effect and not differential trends between treated and control units.

Keywords: Tax Havens, Labor shares, Profit shifting FDI, Inequalities.

JEL Classification: D33, F23, H26, H87, O47

Suggested Citation:

Lopez Forero, Margarita, Aggregate Labor Share and Tax Havens: Things Are Not Always What They Seem (July 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4201609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4201609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering? Posted: 2017
D Acemoglu , P Restrepo
The race between man and machine: Implications of technology for growth, factor shares, and employment
American Economic Review , volume 108 , issue 6 , p. 1488 - 1542 Posted: 2018
A Alstadsaeter , J B Bjørkheim , R B Davies , J Scheuerer
Pennies from haven: Wages and profit shifting Posted: 2022
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
The Fall of the Labor Share and the Rise of Superstar Firms*
The Quarterly Journal of Economics Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Baptiste Souillard
Charting New Waters: Submarine Cables and Multinationals' Activities in Tax Haven Islands
Scottish Journal of Political Economy Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
RANK
496,121
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies