Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar 2's Impact on Tax Competition

58 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2022 Last revised: 28 Sep 2022

John Vella

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Heydon Wardell-Burrus

Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 26, 2022

Abstract

The Two-Pillar Solution agreed by 137 countries on 8 October 2021 has been hailed as “historic” and a “a once-in-a-generation accomplishment for economic diplomacy.” To a significant extent, this is due to the expected impact of Pillar 2 (essentially a global minimum tax) on tax competition among states. This paper examines Pillar 2’s impact on tax competition. It builds on a short policy brief released by the authors in January 2022 in which the main incentives created by Pillar 2 that are relevant to tax competition were first identified.

The paper is divided into 7 sections. Section 1 introduces the paper. Section 2 discusses Pillar 2’s objectives: addressing profit shifting and tax competition. Section 3 discusses the Top-Up Tax calculation under Pillar 2, with a particular focus on the “Substance Based Income Inclusion” and the “Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Tax” (QDMTT) variables. Section 4 sets out three main conclusions on Pillar 2’s impact on tax competition. First, Pillar 2 does set a floor on tax paid on corporate profit by multinationals equal to 15% of “Excess Profit”. It also sets an effective floor on competition among “source” countries. The floor is set at zero Corporation Tax liabilities and a tax of 15% of Excess Profit collected through a QDMTT. Second, Pillar 2 may provide some countries with an incentive to raise revenues through a QDMTT rather than a Corporation Tax. Put more provocatively, Pillar 2 may strengthen the incentive for some countries to compete on Corporation Tax, but they can recover the Corporation Tax revenues foregone through the QDMTT. Third, countries can compete below the floor identified above by offering grants and “Qualified Refundable Tax Credits”. Section 5 considers implementation issues. It considers options for uniform or differentiated implementation of Pillar 2. It also considers factors that may be thought to weaken countries’ incentives to rely on QDMTTs instead of Corporation Tax. Section 6 proposes an alternative design for the Top-Up Tax calculation that may have been preferable. Section 7 concludes. An appendix provides a formal algebraic analysis in support of the main conclusions reached in the paper.

Overall, therefore, this paper concludes that Pillar 2 should have a significant impact on tax competition, but the impact may be less straightforward and significant than may have been expected. It also creates incentives that are not clearly desirable from a policy perspective.


Keywords: Pillar 2, Inclusive Framework, Minimum Tax, International Tax, Tax Competition, OECD, Tax Reform, Incentives, GloBE, Corporation Tax

JEL Classification: H25, H32, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Vella, John and Devereux, Michael P. and Wardell-Burrus, Heydon, Pillar 2's Impact on Tax Competition (August 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4203395 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4203395
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,019
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,802
RANK
18,342
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies