Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Out of the vacuum: The effect of tax liability changes on compliance in the presence of withholding position and group affiliation

65 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022 Last revised: 31 Jan 2023

Chelsea Rae Austin

University of South Carolina

Donna Bobek

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Spenser Seifert

Columbia College

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

Salient tax liability changes do not occur in a vacuum. In this study we investigate the effect of tax liability changes on individuals' compliance decisions while also considering two other important features present when tax laws change-withholding position changes (i.e., whether a taxpayer is in a refund/tax due position) and group affiliation effects (i.e., whether an ingroup or outgroup is responsible for a tax change). Drawing on prospect theory, we predict tax increases and tax due positions induce loss feelings and result in decreased compliance relative to a tax decrease combined with a refund position. We also examine if one type of loss (a tax increase, an economic loss, versus a tax due position, a timing loss) dominates the other and if the presence of one versus two losses differentially affects compliance. Additionally, we predict individuals' feelings of loss will be exacerbated when an outgroup is responsible for a perceived loss, resulting in further decreases in compliance. The results of a between-participant experiment indicate tax increases are universally perceived as losses and result in decreased compliance, even when enacted by an ingroup and/or accompanied by a tax refund. However, the effect of tax liability decreases is affected by withholding position. Despite representing a real economic gain, a tax decrease coupled with a tax due position is perceived neutrally and results in decreased compliance compared to a tax decrease with a refund. Last, feelings of loss are exacerbated when an outgroup is responsible for the tax change, leading to further decreases in compliance. This study integrates two streams of tax compliance research, identifies how group affiliation affects tax compliance, contributes to theory on how individuals respond to multiple gains and losses, and has specific policy implications regarding how individuals respond to salient features present during tax change years.

Keywords: tax law changes, social identity theory, prospect theory, withholding phenomenon, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Austin, Chelsea Rae and Bobek, Donna and Seifert, Spenser, Out of the vacuum: The effect of tax liability changes on compliance in the presence of withholding position and group affiliation (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Austin
When Pat was making his decision about whether to report the cash income on his return, what do you think was running through his mind? For each statement below, please indicate your level of agreement about whether the statement reflects something Pat was thinking in his particular tax situation Posted: 2021
Pat was thinking he was not being treated fairly by the government
Pat was thinking the government doesn't spend the money it collects wisely
Pat was thinking that cheating on taxes a little bit is okay because it doesn't really do much harm
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
493,078
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies