Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collateral Value and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Property Tax Reform

Nova SBE Working Paper Series No. 643, 2022

33 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2022

Miguel A. Ferreira

Nova School of Business and Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

João Pereira dos Santos

University of Lisbon - ISEG School of Economics and Management; Nova School of Business and Economics

Ana Venâncio

ISEG Lisbon School of Economics and Management,Universidade de Lisboa

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 30, 2022

Abstract

We study the role of property taxes on entrepreneurial activity using a quasi-natural experiment, which unexpectedly reduced the upper bound of the Portuguese property tax rate for urban properties in 2008. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we nd that treated municipalities (i.e., municipalities that had a property tax rate above the new upper bound) experienced higher entry rates in the manufacturing sector vis-a-vis control municipalities (i.e., municipalities that had a property tax rate at or below the new upper bound). Taking advantage of rm-level data, we show that start-ups created as a response to the decrease in property taxes in treated municipalities use more debt, invest more, and are more likely to survive.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Property taxes, Savings, Portugal

JEL Classification: L26, H20, R30

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Miguel Almeida and Pereira dos Santos, João and Venâncio, Ana, Collateral Value and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from a Property Tax Reform (August 30, 2022). Nova SBE Working Paper Series No. 643, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
RANK
381,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies