Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 2: Dispute Resolution Procedures

Ahmed A. Altawyan and Steven C. Wrappe, Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 2: Dispute Resolution Procedures, 51 Tax Mgmt. Int’l J. No. 9 (Sept. 2, 2022).

7 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2022 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

Ahmed Altawyan أحمد الطويان

Saudi Electronic University

Steven C. Wrappe

New York University (NYU)

Date Written: September 2, 2022

Abstract

We discuss the dispute resolution procedures employed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to resolve and avoid transfer pricing disputes. The IRS has enforced transfer pricing rules for decades and its experience can act as a guide for the KSA to consider the procedures to manage transfer pricing disputes. In addition, the article would help foreign investors and companies understand the KSA’s tax dispute environment, especially concerning transfer pricing, and procedures to resolve or avoid transfer pricing disputes in the KSA.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing Disputes, Saudi Law, Saudi Tax

Suggested Citation:

Altawyan, Ahmed and Wrappe, Steven C., Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 2: Dispute Resolution Procedures (September 2, 2022). Ahmed A. Altawyan and Steven C. Wrappe, Transfer Pricing and Transfer Pricing Disputes in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Part 2: Dispute Resolution Procedures, 51 Tax Mgmt. Int’l J. No. 9 (Sept. 2, 2022)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4208475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
558
RANK
576,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies