Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hamilton vs. Jefferson in Supreme Court Direct Tax Jurisprudence

Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2022 Last revised: 23 Sep 2022

Joshua Cutler

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

Increasingly frequent calls for some form of a wealth tax highlight the importance of understanding whether such a tax would be considered an unconstitutional “direct tax” if not apportioned according to population. The definition of direct tax was left deliberately vague at the Constitutional Convention, and consequently its meaning has been shaped through battles between the opposing political philosophies of Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson. Hamilton and his allies prioritized an energetic national government with adequate taxing powers to support its functions and unite the states; had great respect for tradition, precedent, and practical experience; and preferred a broad mode of constitutional interpretation that showed strong deference to Congress. Jefferson and his allies prized individual liberty above all and viewed the national government as the chief threat to that liberty. Accordingly, Jeffersonians wanted strict limits on the national government’s taxing powers; supported the rights and powers of state governments as a buffer between individuals and the national government; and wanted the Supreme Court to strictly interpret the Constitution and exercise judicial supremacy over Congress. I trace the key Supreme Court cases interpreting the Direct Tax clause and show that these Hamiltonian and Jeffersonian beliefs consistently appear in and shape the Court’s opinions. The Hamiltonian vs. Jeffersonian contest is far from settled, and will surely play a role in deciding the fate of any future wealth tax.

Keywords: Taxation, Constitution, Wealth Tax, Hamilton, Jefferson, Supreme Court

Suggested Citation:

Cutler, Joshua, Hamilton vs. Jefferson in Supreme Court Direct Tax Jurisprudence (August 1, 2022). Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4212763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4212763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies