Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation of Informal Firms: Misreporting Costs and a Tax Reform in Brazil

72 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2022

Marcelo Arbex

University of Windsor - Department of Economics

Enlinson Mattos

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Economics

Rebeca Regatieri

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This paper investigates multistage taxes on firms in a limited tax capacity economy. We characterize the optimal taxation of informal firms reinterpreting behavioral and mechanical effects. Our numerical exercises highlight the relationship between misreporting costs and the elasticities of reported revenues and costs. We explore a tax reform in Brazil with a survey of informal firms to estimate these elasticities (0.48 and 0.92, respectively), which imply smaller sheltering costs for input expenditures. The optimal multistage tax system includes (i) differential linear taxes across the production chain and (ii) a positive, but very small, tax refund rate.

Keywords: Limited tax capacity, tax reform, optimal taxes, informal firms

Suggested Citation:

Arbex, Marcelo and Mattos, Enlinson and Regatieri, Rebeca, Optimal Taxation of Informal Firms: Misreporting Costs and a Tax Reform in Brazil. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
RANK
713,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies