Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corruption Culture Matter for Tax Morale? Evidence From Generation of Immigrant Samples

26 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Abu Bakkar Siddique

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: September 9, 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the role of cultural norms of corruption on individual-level tax morale which are often difficult to separate from the institutional effects. So, it exploited the origin country corruption of an immigrant population in the destination country and find that first-generation immigrants from high-corruption countries reveal lower tax morale in their destination countries. However, the effect of corruption culture attenuates for second-generation immigrants and signifies the importance of local forces and cultural integration. While the corruption experience and destination country corruption are more important determinants of tax morale for the immigrant population, the origin country's corruption norms remain an important determinant of their tax behavior for at least a generation. The results imply that, due to the sticky effect of corruption, the elimination of corruption may not lead to rebuilding the fiscal contract between the government and tax-paying people immediately, and therefore, people may not adjust their tax morale.

Keywords: tax morale, corruption culture, corruption, tax fairness, culture

JEL Classification: K42, Z1, G28, H26, H11

Suggested Citation:

Siddique, Abu Bakkar, Does Corruption Culture Matter for Tax Morale? Evidence From Generation of Immigrant Samples (September 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4213991 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4213991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
677,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies