Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Disputes - The Role of Technology and Controversy Expertise

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 101

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-11

54 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2022 Last revised: 24 Feb 2025

Daniel Dyck

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Johannes Lorenz

University of Regensburg; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 1, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates how two practices to manage tax risk in firms, namely the use of tax technology for internal information provision and the use of a controversy manager who offers specific expertise in tax disputes, affect two key tax metrics for firms: the probability of unfavorable dispute outcomes and low final tax payments. Building on a Bayesian persuasion model, we find that the controversy manager has a tax reassurance and a tax planning effect. In a given dispute with a strategic tax authority, she directly decreases unfavorable dispute outcomes, which shields the tax manager from the costs of unfavorable outcomes. In equilibrium, the tax manager thus increases his tax planning effort, indirectly increasing the tax dispute probability and making the net effect on unfavorable outcomes ambiguous. Although we show that the controversy manager consistently enhances the probability for low final tax payments, the same is not true for tax technology quality. Taken together, our results indicate that using a controversy manager combined with an intermediate-quality tax technology is often beneficial for firms. Ultimately, the preferred quality depends on the firm’s favored metric, tax manager characteristics, and the litigation-friendliness of the tax environment.

Keywords: tax dispute resolution, tax risk management, tax technology, controversy expertise, Bayesian persuasion

JEL Classification: H25, H26, C72, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dyck, Daniel and Lorenz, Johannes and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Tax Disputes - The Role of Technology and Controversy Expertise (December 1, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 101, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4214449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
A A Acito , M L Nessa
Law Firms as Tax Planning Service Providers
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
R Alonso , O Câmara
Bayesian Persuasion with Heterogeneous Priors
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 165 , p. 672 - 706 Posted: 2016
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
F Baumann , T Friehe
Profit Shifting Despite Symmetric Tax Rates? A Note on the Role of Tax Enforcement
International Economic Journal , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 108 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
RANK
263,504
2 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies