Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of the SRLY and DCL Rules on MNCs

41 Va. Tax Rev. 391 (2022)

25 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2022 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Melanie McCoskey

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 13, 2022

Abstract

Affiliated corporations can elect to file a consolidated tax return, thereby using the losses from some members to offset the income of other members. To prevent this strategy from being used by multinational entities, the Dual Consolidated Loss rules prohibit the use of a loss in the United States if the loss has been, or is expected to be, used in a foreign country. Furthermore, the structure of affiliated corporations may change over time. The Separate Return Limitation Year rules limit the utilization of losses when a member of a group leaves or joins the consolidated unit. These rules, although being used very often in practice, are still considered complicated, and limited research exists. Therefore the purpose of this paper is to explain the interaction of these two sets of rules and provide the much-needed guidance to these complicated and highly technical issues.

Keywords: Tax, International Tax, Corporate Tax

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and McCoskey, Melanie, The Application of the SRLY and DCL Rules on MNCs (September 13, 2022). 41 Va. Tax Rev. 391 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4218283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
RANK
350,748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies