Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Register or not to Register for Value-Added Tax? How Tax Rate Changes Can Influence the Decisions of Small Businesses in South Africa

Schoeman, A.H., Evans, C.C. & Du Preez, H. 2022. To register or not to register for value-added tax? How tax rate changes can influence the decisions of small businesses in South Africa. Meditari Accountancy Research, 30(7):213-236.

37 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022

Anculien Schoeman

University of Pretoria

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Hanneke du Preez

University of Pretoria

Date Written: May 10, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Correct registration for the value-added tax (VAT) is a key aspect of tax compliance; it is vital in ensuring adequate tax revenue collection in all countries but particularly in developing countries such as South Africa. Non-registration hinders sufficient tax revenue collection, stifles economic growth and causes unfair competition with formal businesses. The purpose of the research is to determine whether changes in the VAT rate affect the registration decisions of businesses, ultimately impacting upon tax compliance behaviour and tax revenue collection.

Design: An online 2 x 2 between-subjects field experiment was conducted, as part of a broader study, to consider compliance with registration requirements by small business entities in South Africa, specifically when there are changes in the VAT rate.

Findings and originality: Although the study establishes that changes in the VAT rate tend not to have a significant impact on the registration decisions of such taxpayers, it nonetheless indicates that the magnitude of the change in the VAT rate may be influential on registration decisions, whether relating to compulsory or voluntary registration. More particularly, the greater the magnitude of the VAT rate decrease (increase), the more likely it is that taxpayers will register (deregister) for VAT purposes, indicating that the magnitude of changes in the VAT rate do have an impact on VAT registration decisions and therefore on tax compliance more generally.


Keywords: Tax registration, tax compliance, small business entities, VAT rate, field experiment

Suggested Citation:

Schoeman, Anculien AH and Evans, Christopher Charles and du Preez, Hanneke, To Register or not to Register for Value-Added Tax? How Tax Rate Changes Can Influence the Decisions of Small Businesses in South Africa (May 10, 2022). Schoeman, A.H., Evans, C.C. & Du Preez, H. 2022. To register or not to register for value-added tax? How tax rate changes can influence the decisions of small businesses in South Africa. Meditari Accountancy Research, 30(7):213-236., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4219831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4219831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
785,592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies