Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Demographic Change and VAT Revenues – Results from a Microsimulation Model for Germany

10 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2022

Luca Rebeggiani

FOM University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: September 18, 2022

Abstract

Similarly to many other European countries, Germany has experienced a considerable demographic shift since the 1970s: higher life expectancy and diminishing birth rates, only partly balanced by immigration, have led to an altered population structure with an increasing share of elderly people. In the next decades, population aging in Germany will accelerate and also induce a decline of the total population. These demographic changes can be expected to have a profound impact on the governmental budget. While changes in public expenditures have been forecasted regularly since 2005, the revenue side has received less attention to date. We study the long-term (2015-2060) changes in tax revenues induced by demographic change. This paper particularly concentrates on the development of the VAT revenues, forecasting its changes due to a diminishing and aging population. Estimating a private consumption model, we show this demographic shift is shown to affect the structure of private consumption. This is, in turn, linked to the VAT revenues via different taxation rates. While the absolute values of VAT revenues will not decrease in the long run, given the expected increases in real incomes, the model forecasts a significant decrease of VAT revenues in Germany driven by changing consumption structure compared to a baseline scenario without demographic change.

Keywords: Tax Revenues, VAT, Demographic Change, Microsimulation, Private Consumption

JEL Classification: C53, H24, J18

Suggested Citation:

Rebeggiani, Luca, Demographic Change and VAT Revenues – Results from a Microsimulation Model for Germany (September 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4222368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4222368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies