Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Tax Evasion from a Global Perspective in the Light of Gender

Robert W. McGee, Jovan Shopovski and Monika Bolek, Factors Influencing Tax Evasion from a Global Perspective in the Light of Gender. Journal of Finance and Financial Law [Finanse I Prawo Finansowe], 35(3): 9-26 (2022). https://doi.org/10.18778&#

18 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2022

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Jovan Shopovski

European Scientific Institute, ESI

Monika Bolek

University of Lodz

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

The goal of this paper is to analyze tax evasion with special emphasis on gender. Factors influencing tax noncompliance such as age, income, education, confidence in government, political scale and religiosity are analyzed. Tax evasion is analyzed based on the most recent (Wave 7) World Value Survey data with the significance of differences between respondents, correlation and regression models analysis. It has been found that there are significant differences between the global approach and groups of males and females when the acceptance of cheating on taxes is taken into consideration. The analysis of groups reflected the fact that all factors influence respondents in the same way without distinguishing between males and females.


Keywords: tax evasion, gender, ethics, public finance

JEL Classification: H26, J16

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Shopovski, Jovan and Bolek, Monika, Factors Influencing Tax Evasion from a Global Perspective in the Light of Gender (September 19, 2022). Robert W. McGee, Jovan Shopovski and Monika Bolek, Factors Influencing Tax Evasion from a Global Perspective in the Light of Gender. Journal of Finance and Financial Law [Finanse I Prawo Finansowe], 35(3): 9-26 (2022). https://doi.org/10.18778&#, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
383,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies