Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GloBE and EU Law: Assessing the Compatibility of the OECD's Pillar Ii Initiative on a Minimum Effective Tax Rate with EU Law and Implementing it within the Internal Market

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 3 ; p. 465-498

35 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2022 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Date Written: July 30, 2020

Abstract

This article examines the compatibility of the OECD's proposed rules on GloBE (pillar II) with EU law, covering both primary law and secondary law. In addition, it discusses the amendments required by the implementation of this initiative within the internal market. In what concerns compatibility with primary law, this article suggests extending some of the measures to domestic scenarios (avoiding potential issues of discrimination or restriction). In what concerns secondary law, it suggests altering some of the provision of the directives. Furthermore, in the author's view, the EU would benefit from aligning some of its tax directives to the outcomes of OECD's GloBE.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GloBE Proposal (OECD, Pillar 2 (OECD), EU law, internal market, global minimum tax, fundamental freedoms, discrimination, justification, proportionality, ATAD, Merger Directive, Parent-Subsidiary Directive, Interest and Royalties Directive, DST, significant economic presence, PE, CCCTB, EU Charter o

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pinto Nogueira, João Félix, GloBE and EU Law: Assessing the Compatibility of the OECD's Pillar Ii Initiative on a Minimum Effective Tax Rate with EU Law and Implementing it within the Internal Market (July 30, 2020). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 3 ; p. 465-498, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Programme of Work, supra n. 2, § 30
Council of the European Union, Digital Taxation -State of Play
ECOFIN , volume 408 Posted: 2019-10-28
Fratelli Costanzo / Comune di Milano Posted: 1839
For instance, if the rule sub juditio is incompatible with the free movement of capitals and payments, according to Art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of 13 December
OJ C , volume 115 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies