Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence and Tax Administration : Strategy, Applications and Implications, with Special Reference to the Tax Inspection Procedure

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 13 (2021), no. 4 ; p. 575-608

Posted: 28 Nov 2022

Fernando Serrano Antón

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 27, 2021

Abstract

This article provides insights into the use of artificial intelligence (AI) by tax administrations as a means of transforming tax procedures by improving tax efficiency and transparency, coming up with ideas and plans to implement new data-driven tax administrations, automating repetitive tax tasks, improving the fight against tax evasion, obtaining tax information to be used by the tax administration and providing other taxpayer services. Although the article focuses mainly on the use of AI in tax audits and the way to identify tax risks and taxpayer segmentation through AI, it also includes some reflections on data governance. Due to the fact that tax administrations are currently at different stages of AI use, the author aims to reveal the state of the art of AI in the tax world and to foster the ethical and responsible use of AI in tax administrations, in balance with taxpayers' rights and guarantees. Modern tax administrations cannot allow themselves to be anything but efficient and transparent in the fight against tax evasion.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: artificial intelligence, big data, information technology, tax authorities, tax evasion, audit, risk management, automation, data protection, taxpayer rights, tax compliance, control

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Serrano Antón, Fernando, Artificial Intelligence and Tax Administration : Strategy, Applications and Implications, with Special Reference to the Tax Inspection Procedure (September 27, 2021). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 13 (2021), no. 4 ; p. 575-608, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223007
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,554
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies