Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critique from a Developing Country Perspective of the Proposals to Tax the Digital Economy

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 4 ; p. 799-828

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Annet Oguttu

University of Pretoria

Date Written: October 13, 2020

Abstract

The digital economy has revolutionized the way of doing business, but it poses challenges to the effectiveness of current international tax system. The OECD has called on the international community to consider new international tax rules for taxing the digital economy, with a plan to reach consensus by 2020. This article highlights that the feasibility of the new rules should be based on a principled approach. However, before international consensus could be reached, some countries started adopting unilateral measures that threaten the integrity of the international tax system, and they impact on foreign direct investment in developing countries. The article highlights the pros and cons of the proposals from a principled and developing country perspective. With country interests to protect, there is no guarantee that consensus will be reached soon. While uncertainty prevails, the article recommends measures that have historically been used to protect source tax bases and are in line with international tax principles that will be useful for developing countries.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), digital economy, developing countries, source principle of taxation, withholding tax, service fee, services PE, UN Model, alternative minimum tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Oguttu, Annet, A Critique from a Developing Country Perspective of the Proposals to Tax the Digital Economy (October 13, 2020). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 4 ; p. 799-828, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223102
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies