Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limitation of Holding Structures for Intra-Eu Dividends : An End to Tax Avoidance?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 2 ; 37 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Susi Baerentzen

Independent

Arjan Lejour

Tilburg University; CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Analysis

Maarten Van 't Riet

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 2, 2020

Abstract

This article analyses the recent rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union in two Danish cases and examines their possible impact on international tax avoidance. These rulings regard limitations of tax benefits related to cross-border dividend payments resulting from the interposition of holding companies in the European Union. From a legal perspective, the authors conclude that the rulings demonstrate the alignment of international tax policies to combat tax avoidance between the European Union and the OECD. The concerted action between the two is implemented by the economic test to counter abusive legal holding structures. From a quantitative perspective, the rulings limit the potential for multinational enterprises to lower their tax burden considerably. The worldwide average potential gain from treaty shopping is reduced from 5.6% to 4.5% when the EU Member States cannot be used on treaty shopping routes. With more countries, the combat against tax avoidance is more effective. However, the fact that some countries have a standard withholding tax rate of zero per cent hampers the combat.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: ECJ case law, tax avoidance, treaty benefits, treaty shopping, dividend withholding tax, tax policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Baerentzen, Susi and Lejour, Arjan M. and Van 't Riet, Maarten, Limitation of Holding Structures for Intra-Eu Dividends : An End to Tax Avoidance? (April 2, 2020). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 2 ; 37 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223089
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies