Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scaling Back Tax Preferences on Artificial Intelligence-Driven Automation : Back to Neutral?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 2 ; p. 409-462

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Christina Dimitropoulou

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 23, 2020

Abstract

This article discusses the possibility of the rehabilitation of tax incentives to address the negative effects of artificial intelligence (AI) automation, especially since investments in new technologies resulting in automation are largely subsidized. This idea is premised on the need to restore the neutrality of the tax system, understood in both its equity and efficiency dimensions. The article uses the concept of tax expenditures as the theoretical background for evaluating automation tax incentives and their potential limitation as to whether it might advance the tax system's normative goals. By examining several automation tax preferences in light of tax neutrality, some risks were identified for both equity and efficiency based on the workers-machines substitution effect. The article concludes that a tax policy reducing tax incentives on AI-driven automation would be proportional to the aim pursued if the scope of the measure is designed by referring to the substitution effect between robots and workers and would not be such as to impede investment in AI that is socially desirable.

http://www.ibfd.org/IBFD-Products/Journal-Articles/World-Tax-Journal/collections/wtj/html/wtj_2020_02_int_3.html

Keywords: tax incentive, international taxation, artificial intelligence, automation, tax policy, fiscal neutrality, tax expenditure

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dimitropoulou, Christina, Scaling Back Tax Preferences on Artificial Intelligence-Driven Automation : Back to Neutral? (June 23, 2020). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 12 (2020), no. 2 ; p. 409-462, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4223095
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies