Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Arm's Length Standard and Tax Justice : Reflections on the Present and the Future of Transfer Pricing

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 3 ; p. 351-379

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Aitor Navarro

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: June 26, 2018

Abstract

The aim of this contribution is to analyse the arm's length standard from a tax justice perspective so as to determine the proper breadth of the fiction it imposes. To that end, an interpretative solution is proposed to minimize negative outcomes derived from the alleged shortcomings of the mentioned standard that mainly arise due to the fact that MNEs do not operate in markets as independent parties do. Although the proposal may seem rather theoretical or abstract, practical implications may be derived from it in diverse matters within transfer pricing, e.g. on the recognition of profits derived from active and passive association, on how synergistic gains should be split, on the scope of transactional adjustments and on the fostering of two-sided analysis. In fact, the proposal may serve to provide a sound and strong theoretical basis to encourage the proposals discussed within the BEPS Project.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: arm's length principle, transfer pricing, horizontal equity, ability to pay, transfer pricing adjustment

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Navarro, Aitor, The Arm's Length Standard and Tax Justice : Reflections on the Present and the Future of Transfer Pricing (June 26, 2018). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 3 ; p. 351-379, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224405
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies