Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Taxation in the Digital Economy : Challenge Accepted?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 1 ; p. 3-46

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Marcel Olbert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

The digitalization of the economy is considered as a key driver of innovation, economic growth and societal change, and is a major challenge for the international tax system. The OECD has addressed this challenge in its extensive Action 1 Final Report as part of its base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project. This article critically depicts the OECD's view and reform proposals on taxing businesses in the digital economy. Further, recent literature contributions on the matter are synthesized. While taxing profits according to value creation is detected as the new paradigm in international taxation, this review reveals that the understanding of the digital economy and corresponding reform proposals for taxation are premature. The authors show that the OECD has systematically missed the opportunities to define the paradigm of value creation and to analyse digital business models accordingly. Considering the current challenges, the key pressure area for taxing digital businesses in the near future is transfer pricing. Drawing from practical case studies and research in industrial economics, accounting and management science, this article derives a concept for value creation in digital businesses. Based on this concept, the authors propose a framework to refine transfer pricing guidance in order to come closer to the goal of aligning profit taxation with value creation.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy, international taxation, value, BEPS Project (OECD), transfer pricing, treaty abuse, PE, anti-avoidance, nexus, withholding tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Olbert, Marcel and Spengel, Christoph, International Taxation in the Digital Economy : Challenge Accepted? (February 1, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 1 ; p. 3-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224662
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies