Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For the Good of the Game? A Comparison of the Taxation of Sportspersons and Sports Organizations Outside of and During Major Sporting Events

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 4 ; p. 599-644

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Jesko Thiede

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stefan Trencsik

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 6, 2017

Abstract

While hosting a prestigious sporting event, like the Olympic Games or the FIFA World Cup, can run up against major opposition from the local population in some countries, most countries still consider it a great honour. For this reason, nations all around the globe vie with each other for the right to stage such events and make significant concessions to the sports organizations. Such concessions include in particular tax reliefs for a predefined group of persons including the participating sportspersons and sports associations. These practices have been increasingly criticized in the media and politics for economic and social reasons. Moreover, the academic literature argues that such special tax regimes distort the regular applicable international taxation principles of sportspersons and sports organizations. This paper deals with these arguments, outlines the problems arising from special tax regimes, and critically examines their justifications. For this purpose, the authors present the mechanism of special tax regimes during major sports events between 2000 and 2016 for the taxation of sportspersons and sports organizations compared to the generally applicable tax rules. The results confirm that the special tax regimes interfere negatively in the fair taxation of sportspersons, sports organizations and tournaments. Additionally, the justifications in favour of special tax regimes for major sports events prove not to be entirely convincing. On this basis, the authors discuss alternative approaches for an equitable and efficient taxation of sportspersons and sports organizations during major sports tournaments. While the issues regarding the taxation of sportspersons are solvable, this would necessitate global agreement for the fair taxation of sports organizations, which is, however, unlikely to be achieved.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: sportsperson, sports club, tax relief, domestic tax law, tax treaty, tax policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Thiede, Jesko and Trencsik, Stefan, For the Good of the Game? A Comparison of the Taxation of Sportspersons and Sports Organizations Outside of and During Major Sporting Events (November 6, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 4 ; p. 599-644, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224674
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
165
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies