Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing for Digital Business Models : Early Evidence of Challenges and Options for Reform

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 4 ; p. 557-588

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Stefan Greil

Independent

Raphael Müller

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Marcel Olbert

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 11, 2019

Abstract

The international tax system faces substantial challenges with respect to taxing the profits of multinational companies in the digital economy. Both policymakers and taxpayers consider the determination of intra-company transfer prices the most pressing issue. This article analyses existing transfer pricing challenges for digital businesses and supplements the analysis with descriptive insights on practical challenges from a survey among practitioners at multinational companies. Considering the survey insights, the authors discuss current transfer pricing developments in the BEPS 2.0 Project and assess whether they address existing challenges. They document that transfer pricing for digitalized transactions is an increasingly relevant issue, also for companies with traditional business models. They also find that recent reforms targeting profit shifting activities has increased legal uncertainty. Further, they argue that the tendency towards the formulaic apportionment of profits under current policy discussions about the new allocation of taxing rights has the potential to overcome this problem; however, its integration in the existing transfer pricing framework will create complex delineation issues.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: transfer pricing, digital economy, allocation of taxing rights, BEPS Project (OECD)

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Greil, Stefan and Müller, Raphael and Olbert, Marcel, Transfer Pricing for Digital Business Models : Early Evidence of Challenges and Options for Reform (November 11, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 4 ; p. 557-588, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224154
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
386
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies