Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Chinese General Anti-Avoidance Rule : A Comparative and Functional Approach

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 1 ; p. 79-120

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Jurian van der Pas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 17, 2016

Abstract

Seven years after its introduction in 2008 with the enactment of the new Chinese Corporate Income Tax Law, the Chinese general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR) has become a complex and incoherent piece of legislation. Despite its current shortcomings, the international impact of the Chinese GAAR is expected to grow significantly given China's increasingly proactive participation in the G20's fight against international tax avoidance and its embrace of the OECD's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative. Against this background, this research takes a comparative-functional approach to analyse and evaluate the functioning and efficacy of the Chinese GAAR. The comparative-functional approach is used to critically compare the Chinese GAAR with the GAARs of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. These jurisdictions were chosen for reasons that are both practical and theoretical, as the comparators both have a large amount of reliable and openly accessible literature and jurisprudence, and strike a balance between civil law jurisdictions and common law jurisdictions. The analysis reveals that for a number of legal, institutional and cultural reasons, the Chinese GAAR is not working as effectively, and is not as balanced, as it could be. On these grounds, the article puts forward some suggestions for reforms on a legal and administrative level that could lead to a more balanced application of the Chinese GAAR. The article does not advocate judicial reforms.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GAAR, corporate income tax, substance over form, burden of proof

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

van der Pas, Jurian, Improving the Chinese General Anti-Avoidance Rule : A Comparative and Functional Approach (February 17, 2016). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 1 ; p. 79-120, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224678
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies