Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinational Firm Theory and International Tax Law : Seeking Coherence

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 2 ; p. 243-276

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Romero J. S. Tavares

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 15, 2016

Abstract

This study provides an interdisciplinary analysis of firm theory and international tax law, applied within a framework of hypothetical illustrations of prototypical multinational enterprises. The study finds that the construct and interpretation of different norms of international tax law correlate over time with different and partial views of the functioning of multinational enterprises and of their value drivers. Accordingly, international tax law is incoherent or ineffective in key aspects of its design, interpretation and enforcement, such as in the recognition of permanent establishments under articles 5(1), 5(5) and 5(7) of the OECD Model, the attribution of profits to permanent establishments under article 7, and the interpretation of the arm's length principle under article 9. The "value creation" approach promoted through the G20/OECD base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) Project, as well as the "Authorised OECD Approach" (AOA) for the attribution of profits to permanent establishments under article 7, seem to approximate the interpretation of treaty law to modern firm theories, albeit inconsistently and still requiring improvement. Other fundamental rules for the allocation of taxing rights, however, remain unaltered and dated, and/or incoherently interpreted. This study supports the consistent use of modern firm theories and the convergence of international tax norms to a common and coherent approach.


Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, international taxation, MNE, UN Model, PE, arm's length principle, AOA, allocation of profits, unitary tax system

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Tavares, Romero J. S., Multinational Firm Theory and International Tax Law : Seeking Coherence (June 15, 2016). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 2 ; p. 243-276, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224685
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies