Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abuse and Aggressive Tax Planning : Between OECD and EU Initiatives - the Dividing Line between Intended and Unintended Double Non-Taxation

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 2 ; p. 189-246

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Félix Daniel Martínez Laguna

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 6, 2017

Abstract

Is it possible to talk accurately about unintended double non-taxation and aggressive tax planning from an international perspective? Do they have an international meaning? The aim of this contribution is to clarify the meaning of unintended double non-taxation and aggressive tax planning in the international debate. When it comes to intentions, this contribution proposes splitting the concept of double non-taxation into proper double non-taxation and twice non-taxation. Proper double non-taxation provides the dividing line between intended and unintended double non-taxation at treaty level. The parallel exercise of sovereignty by different states leading to non-taxation from a domestic perspective and then to double non-taxation across borders relates to twice non-taxation, situations where it is not possible to infer intentions in the abstract out of that very outcome. One of the main conclusions of the article lies on the national nature of the concepts of aggressive tax planning and unintended double non-taxation present in the international tax debate and the relation between them, denying their international character. Aggressive tax planning is defined by those domestic and treaty measures that identify and deter those outcomes that are considered non-acceptable or unintended in advance, where avoidance is not present whatsoever. This contribution grounds its conclusions through the analysis of double non-taxation stemming from sovereignty and the confrontation of state behaviour and taxpayer behaviour with respect to the relevant outcome of double non-taxation, paying great attention not only to tax planning and avoidance but also to tax competition.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning, double non-taxation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Martínez Laguna, Félix Daniel, Abuse and Aggressive Tax Planning : Between OECD and EU Initiatives - the Dividing Line between Intended and Unintended Double Non-Taxation (April 6, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 2 ; p. 189-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224667
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
478
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies