Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Investments in the Asia-Pacific Region : The Importance of Cross-Border Taxation and Fiscal Incentives

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 2 ; p. 193-224

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Katharina Nicolay

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Verena Wiedemann

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 8, 2016

Abstract

This article investigates the taxation of investments in the Asia-Pacific region. The authors' analysis is based on the methodology of Devereux and Griffith (1999 and 2003) for determining effective average tax rates. This approach allows the authors to account for important domestic and international tax regulations. The results presented in this article show that for the tax law of 2014, the overall dispersion of effective tax burdens in the Asia-Pacific region ranges from 10.6% in Hong Kong to 40.4% in India for domestic investments (an overall average of 23.4%). In 8 out of 19 jurisdictions covered, investments are, however, effectively taxed at a rate between 20% and 25%. For foreign direct investment, international tax law regulations have a significant impact on the overall tax burden. In any of the Asia-Pacific jurisdictions, foreign direct investments by a Singaporean or a German parent company are on average taxed at 29.2% and at 32.8% in the case of profit repatriation to the United States. Meanwhile, tax incentives for the stimulation of private investment reduce the effective average tax rate by 8.6 percentage points on average. Fiscal incentives targeted at investments in the high-technology sector or the development of specific geographic areas result in the lowest effective tax burdens.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: foreign investment, effective tax rate, tax rate, tax burden, tax incentive, manufacturing industry

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Nicolay, Katharina and Wiedemann, Verena, Taxing Investments in the Asia-Pacific Region : The Importance of Cross-Border Taxation and Fiscal Incentives (June 8, 2016). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 2 ; p. 193-224, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224682
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies