Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Profit Allocation, Intangibles and Sales-Based Transactional Profit Split

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 1 ; p. 99-115

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Ulrich Schreiber

Independent

Lisa Maria Fell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 25, 2017

Abstract

Information technology has greatly changed the economy and intangible assets have become dominant value drivers of multinationals' business. Firm-specific intangibles challenge the time-honoured arm's length principle. The OECD's Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting addresses this issue, aiming at an allocation of profits associated with the transfer and use of intangibles that is in accordance with value creation. The OECD proposals are in line with inter-nation equity, but may have undesired effects on the investment location decisions of multinationals. The authors take the OECD's proposals as a starting point and explore a sales-based transactional split of profits associated with intangibles to ensure both international investment tax neutrality and inter-nation equity. Sales-based taxation of intangible-related profits calls for an appropriate nexus in the sales jurisdiction. The authors examine possible avenues to expand the current permanent establishment rules to cover intangible-related business activities.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: allocation of profits, international taxation, fiscal neutrality, profit shifting, intangibles, PE, transactional profit methods

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schreiber, Ulrich and Fell, Lisa Maria, International Profit Allocation, Intangibles and Sales-Based Transactional Profit Split (January 25, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 1 ; p. 99-115, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224661
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies