Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home or Away? Profit Shifting with Territorial Taxation

IMF Working Paper No. 2022/177

38 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022

Dominika Langenmayr

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Li Liu

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

In 2009, the United Kingdom abolished the taxation of profits earned abroad and introduced a territorial tax system. Under the territorial system, firms have strong incentives to shift profits abroad. Using a difference-in-differences research design, we show that the profitability of UK subsidiaries in low-tax countries increased after the reform compared to subsidiaries of non-UK multinationals in the same countries by an average of 2 percentage points. This increase in profit shifting also leads to increases in measured productivity of the foreign affiliates of UK multinationals of between 5 and 9 percent.

Keywords: profit shifting, territorial tax system, multinational firms, shifted profit, UK multinational, UK subsidiary, difference-in-differences research design, Total factor productivity, Transnational corporations, Corporate income tax, Income, Wages, Global

JEL Classification: H25, H87, F23, D24, E25, J30

Suggested Citation:

Langenmayr, Dominika and Langenmayr, Dominika and Liu, Li, Home or Away? Profit Shifting with Territorial Taxation (September 1, 2022). IMF Working Paper No. 2022/177, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies