Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Deconstruction of the Principal Purposes Test

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 3-45

Posted: 5 Dec 2022

Stef van Weeghel

Independent

Date Written: January 17, 2019

Abstract

This article provides for a critical examination of the principal purposes test (PPT) of article 29(9) of the 2017 OECD Model Income Tax Convention on Income and on Capital. The focus is on the second part of the PPT, which allows for the granting of treaty benefits in the presence of a tax avoidance motive if that would be in accordance with the object and purpose of the relevant provisions of the OECD Model. Questions are raised as to how exactly the object and purpose are determined, the consistency of the relevant parts of the Commentary on the 2017 OECD Model is discussed, and the Examples that purport to clarify the application of the PPT are critically reviewed. Finally, an effort is made to come to a sensible and workable synthesis of the various aspects of the PPT, including the 'nexus' part and the 'abusive transactions' part thereof, which are addressed in some detail, and a concept is explored to extend the multilateral approach taken with respect to the minimum standard of the BEPS Action 6 Final Report to the nexus part of the PPT.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, principal purpose test, tax treaty, case law, LoB, BEPS Project (OECD), treaty benefits, nexus

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

van Weeghel, Stef, A Deconstruction of the Principal Purposes Test (January 17, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 3-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224137
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies