Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Redistribution Effect of a Shift from Income Deduction to Tax Credit -Discrete Choice Model-Based Simulation Incorporating Labor Supply-

27 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2022

Tomoki Ogasa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Contemporary policy dialogues in Japan suggest that tax credits should replace income deductions in order to enhance the redistributive effect of personal income taxes. Several microsimulation studies have examined the effects of such proposals and have attempted to quantify their changes. However, these simulations were mechanical in that they failed to capture the labor supply responses caused by such a swap. Therefore, this study employed analogous simulations, allowing for the behavioral responses of individuals using household data from 2017. Our behavioral simulations indicate that, while revenue-neutral replacement causes only a slight reduction in labor supply, it does indeed increase the redistributive effect through a 0.74% (1.36%) reduction in the Gini coefficient (Theil index). The 0.43% (resp. 0.67%) decrease for analogous mechanical microsimulations was only half the size of the effect we found. This study demonstrated that the choice between behavioral and mechanical models is important when microsimulating the redistributive effect.

Keywords: income tax, tax credit, income redistribution, discrete choice model, structural estimation, behavioral simulation

Suggested Citation:

Ogasa, Tomoki, Income Redistribution Effect of a Shift from Income Deduction to Tax Credit -Discrete Choice Model-Based Simulation Incorporating Labor Supply-. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4224479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
358
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies