Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Competition and Tax Coordination in Aggressive Tax Planning : A False Dichotomy

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 4 ; p. 477-519

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Paolo Piantavigna

University of Pavia - Department of Law

Date Written: September 28, 2017

Abstract

This article addresses a massive topic: tax competition and trends in aggressive tax planning matters. In particular, the article aims at demonstrating how the concepts of "tax competition" and "tax coordination" must be rephrased after the introduction of the notion of "aggressive tax planning" in order to be acknowledged in the new (global) operating environment. Even if the concept of "tax competition" cannot be totally formalized or objectified, literature - prior to the BEPS Project - was used to identify it in policies between tax jurisdictions by way of tax incentives and advantages to attract sales, distribution, or headquarter functions of MNEs to locate to a particular country. This phenomenon, labelled as "fair" under the jurisdictional competition theory, emerges as "harmful" insofar as it distorts the location of business and trade, erodes the tax base of other countries (also referred to as contributing to the "race to the bottom") and undermines the fairness, neutrality and broad social acceptance of tax systems generally. Following the introduction of the (rather new) notion of "aggressive tax planning", it is examined whether the scope of the harmful tax competition may be extended and - as a result - whether it requires more integrated tax coordination at international level. The answer to that question is particularly problematic, and it also has consistent implications in the EU area, where tax competition plays a fundamental role in economic and monetary policies. In this article, the author argues that, to the extent that national tax-competitive measures fulfil the artificiality test implied in the concept of aggressive tax planning as elaborated by the OECD and embodied by EU law, countries may (fairly) compete and - at the same time - be coordinated in the fight against BEPS behaviours. Indeed, the concept of aggressive tax planning represents the most appropriate balancing instrument to satisfy the need for states to protect their tax revenues and to preserve the right of sovereign governments to introduce favourable regimes to attract investments and taxable profits.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax competition, harmonization of tax, aggressive tax planning, international tax planning, harmful tax competition, base erosion, BEPS

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Piantavigna, Paolo, Tax Competition and Tax Coordination in Aggressive Tax Planning : A False Dichotomy (September 28, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 4 ; p. 477-519, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224672
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies