Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Transaction Tax : An Eleven-Point Analysis of Transaction Taxes Across Member States

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 1 ; p. 121-144

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Carmel Said Formosa

Independent

Date Written: February 23, 2016

Abstract

This article analyses the European Commission's Proposal for Financial Transaction Tax with transaction taxes currently implemented in Member States of the European Union. The features identified for this purpose include transactions liable to tax, recognition of legal title, the tax base, jurisdictional rules, provisions for groups, exemptions, deduction rules and timing considerations. This analysis highlights that the Proposal, in principle, varies little from existing transaction taxes; tax rates are generally low and an extraterritorial effect is found in a number of Member States. The Proposal is however broader in scope and contains limited exemptions. The commonalities found in transaction taxes could help to forge a common framework for future reform of the Proposal whilst differences shed light on problems that may be encountered with respect to implementation. Greater support and guidance will be required.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: financial transaction tax, anti-avoidance, arm's length principle, transfer pricing, double taxation, deductions, exemption

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Said Formosa, Carmel, Financial Transaction Tax : An Eleven-Point Analysis of Transaction Taxes Across Member States (February 23, 2016). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 8 (2016), no. 1 ; p. 121-144, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224680
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies