Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the International Tax System of the Home Country on the Location Decision of a Foreign Permanent Establishment: The Case of Germany

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 7 (2015), no. 2 ; p. 171-200

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Katrin Laschewski

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christian Laschewski

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 29, 2015

Abstract

This article examines the impact of the international tax system on the location decision of a foreign permanent establishment (PE) including cross-border loss relief and activity clauses. Germany, e.g., operates a hybrid system of international taxation, under which foreign income from PEs located in a tax treaty partner country is usually exempted from domestic taxation, while foreign income from non-treaty countries is subject to a tax credit regime. However, even if exemption is the standard method in a treaty, its application is often restricted by activity clauses which in fact require a switch-over from the exemption to the credit method. This hybrid system allows for an analysis of both main systems to avoid international double taxation taking into account cross-border loss relief. The case-by-case analysis in this article shows that the underlying international tax regime of the home country also shapes the location decision for foreign investments of their residents. Thereby, a hybrid system of international taxation distorts investment decisions as it provides selective location decisions for investments in foreign PEs with regard to the method to avoid double taxation and the respective tax consequences.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: PE, tax treaty, cross-border loss relief, exemption method, credit method, switchover clause, foreign investment

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Laschewski, Katrin and Laschewski, Christian, The Impact of the International Tax System of the Home Country on the Location Decision of a Foreign Permanent Establishment: The Case of Germany (June 29, 2015). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 7 (2015), no. 2 ; p. 171-200, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224699
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
163
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies