Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Five Core Problems in the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 2 ; p. 159-187

Posted: 5 Dec 2022

Richard Collier

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

John Vella

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: April 1, 2019

Abstract

The rules regulating the attribution of profit to permanent establishments (PEs) are a fundamental feature of the existing international tax system yet are beset by a multitude of problems. This article identifies five 'core' problems with these rules: (1) the absence of a single standard for PE profit attribution; (2) conceptual and practical problems arising in the application of the Authorised OECD Approach (AOA); (3) new pressures arising as a result of the changes made to the PE threshold rules by the BEPS Project; (4) the failure to deal with the uncertainties between the transfer pricing rules and the PE attribution rules in the aftermath of BEPS; and (5) a raft of new challenges arising from the work on the digitalization of the economy. To a large degree, these issues are symptomatic of the problems faced by the international tax system as a whole. This article analyses the source, nature and impact of these core problems, before concluding with some brief thoughts on potential solutions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: allocation of profits, PE, AOA, BEPS Project (OECD), digital economy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Collier, Richard and Vella, John, Five Core Problems in the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments (April 1, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 2 ; p. 159-187, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224143
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies