Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact and Role of Indirect Taxes Surrounding the Aviation Sector in Mitigating Climate Change : A Legal and Economic Analysis

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 3 ; p. 391-429

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Alice Pirlot

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sébastien Wolff

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 3, 2017

Abstract

Aviation is one of the energy-intensive sectors that significantly contribute to climate change. This paper analyses the legal framework surrounding taxes applied to international civil aviation in order to determine the extent to which taxes could be adopted so as to internalize the environmental costs of air transportation. In a first part, this article discusses the indirect taxes that are currently applied to international civil aviation from an international, European and national tax law perspective. The objective is to critically assess the preferential tax treatments in favour of the sector of international civil aviation in comparison to other transportation sectors. Then, in a second part, this article puts numbers on the legal tax advantages that benefit the international civil aviation sector. Third, in light of the limits of the current legal framework, this paper proposes to level the playing field between international civil aviation and other transportation sectors in order to (more consistently) internalize the negative environmental effects of international civil aviation.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: air transport, indirect tax, aviation tax, EU law, VAT, customs law, fuel tax, excise duty, State aid, environmental tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pirlot, Alice and Wolff, Sébastien, The Impact and Role of Indirect Taxes Surrounding the Aviation Sector in Mitigating Climate Change : A Legal and Economic Analysis (August 3, 2017). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 9 (2017), no. 3 ; p. 391-429, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224670
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
190
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies