Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Effective Minimum Taxation - The GLOBE Proposal

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 4 ; p. 483-529

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Joachim Englisch

University of Münster - Faculty of Law

Johannes Becker

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 20, 2019

Abstract

The Inclusive Framework of the OECD/G20 currently discusses the internationally coordinated introduction of effective minimum taxes on multinational firm profits. This so-called GLOBE (global anti-base erosion) proposal is inspired by the GILTI and BEAT regimes of the 2017 US tax reform. It calls for the implementation of both income inclusion rules that would resemble very broad CFC regimes and switch-over clauses, and deduction barriers or withholding taxes for undertaxed payments in the source country. In this article, the authors make three distinct contributions. First, the authors discuss the policy rationale for the minimum tax, its advantages and potential problems. Second, the authors analyse important features of tax design, i.e. the technical dimension of the tax. Third, the authors examine the proposal in the legal and economic context of the complementary proposals that are currently under discussion (the "Pillar 1" proposals for a reallocation of taxing rights) and its compatibility with tax treaty law and EU treaty law.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GloBE Proposal (OECD), minimum tax, CFC, BEPS Project (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), allocation of taxing rights, tax treaty, EU law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Englisch, Joachim and Becker, Johannes, International Effective Minimum Taxation - The GLOBE Proposal (September 20, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 4 ; p. 483-529, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224153
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies