Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simulating Tax Minimization Strategies of Multinationals : Evaluating the Effectiveness of Changes in the United Kingdom's Corporate Interest Deductibility Rules

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 121-155

Posted: 5 Dec 2022

Ann Kayis-Kumar

Independent

Date Written: January 21, 2019

Abstract

One of the most significant international taxation trends has been the rise of thin capitalization rules. However, these rules are one of many legislative approaches to restricting interest deductibility, and since 2015, a new trend has emerged. Increasingly, jurisdictions across Europe and Asia are replacing their thin capitalization rules with fixed-ratio rules in accordance with the OECD BEPS Action 4 recommendation for a net interest-to-EBITDA ratio. Yet, governments are not always able to observe how multinational enterprises structure their internal affairs in response to regulatory changes. Therefore, this article presents a case study of the United Kingdom's corporate interest deductibility rules over the past 3 decades and analyses these reforms by simulating the behavioural responses of a tax-minimizing multinational enterprise. This review and analysis both facilitate a comparison of the effectiveness of these rules in the UK context, which can inform the framing and evaluation of such regimes in other jurisdictions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: corporate income tax, thin capitalization, interest deduction, fiscal neutrality, debt capital, international tax planning, EBITDA

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kayis-Kumar, Ann, Simulating Tax Minimization Strategies of Multinationals : Evaluating the Effectiveness of Changes in the United Kingdom's Corporate Interest Deductibility Rules (January 21, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 1 ; p. 121-155, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies