Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Audits : Applicable Law and Taxpayer Rights

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 4 ; p. 585-631

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Nevia Čičin-Šain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tina Ehrke-Rabel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joachim Englisch

University of Münster - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 22, 2018

Abstract

This article first provides an overview of the concept, categories and objectives of joint audits, defined as all forms of international cooperation between tax authorities where officials from one country take part in a tax audit carried out by officials of another country. Subsequently, questions of applicable law, taxpayer rights standards in particular, are discussed. On this basis, an in-depth analysis of the relevant constitutional and legal guarantees of taxpayer rights is carried out from the specific perspective of EU law. The article concludes with a plea for further harmonization of joint audit procedure at EU level, in order to provide legal certainty and as a prerequisite for a more prominent role of this legal instrument.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: joint audit, investigation, taxpayer rights, international law, constitutional law, EU law, human rights, legal protection, exchange of information, tax secrecy, harmonization of tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Čičin-Šain, Nevia and Ehrke-Rabel, Tina and Englisch, Joachim, Joint Audits : Applicable Law and Taxpayer Rights (October 22, 2018). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 4 ; p. 585-631, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224412
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative & Non-U.S. Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies