Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Single Tax Principle : Fiction or Reality in a Non-Comprehensive International Tax Regime?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 3 ; p. 305-346

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Elizabeth Gil Garcia

Universidad de Alicante

Date Written: August 7, 2019

Abstract

It is possible to talk about an international tax regime taking into account the international regime theory developed in the framework of international relations. As this is defined as a set of rules and principles that regulate the international tax arena, this contribution analyses if the single tax principle can inspire such an international tax realm. The author explores the roots and developments of the single tax principle and focuses on the purposes of double tax conventions in order to determine whether single taxation is actually a desired outcome of tax treaties. The author also tackles international custom and arrives at the conclusion that the international tax regime does not rise to the level of customary international law. In this regard, the international tax regime is based on competition rather than on coordination, being regarded as a non-comprehensive regime. The question that arises, then, is whether single taxation can act as a coordination mechanism to turn the international tax regime into a comprehensive one.

Full-text Paper

Note: PIP, ABSTRACT ONLY, submitter requested private status

Keywords: single tax principle, tax treaty, double taxation, double non-taxation, international taxation, value creation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gil Garcia, Elizabeth, The Single Tax Principle : Fiction or Reality in a Non-Comprehensive International Tax Regime? (August 7, 2019). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 11 (2019), no. 3 ; p. 305-346 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
211
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies