Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Perceptions of the Book Minimum Tax

50 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2022 Last revised: 6 Feb 2024

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Max Pflitsch

Technical University of Dortmund

Date Written: February 2, 2024

Abstract

The Inflation Reduction Act establishes a new 15 percent corporate minimum tax on the adjusted financial accounting income for large U.S. corporations. While the minimum tax is estimated to raise $222 billion over 10 years, some fear firms will manipulate their accounting earnings to reduce their tax liabilities, resulting in less revenue raised. Using an event study, we examine the extent to which investors believe this tax will reduce firm value. We examine stock market reactions around key legislative developments leading to the enactment of the book minimum tax. Our findings show targeted firms experience significantly lower stock returns than non-targeted firms during the enactment process (about 1.4 to 1.8 percent of firm value). In aggregate, our findings are consistent with the Joint Committee on Taxation’s revenue estimates. In cross-sectional tests, we fail to find evidence that firms most likely to avoid the tax via earnings management experience more positive returns. We also fail to find less negative returns for firms most likely to pass on the tax to consumers. Overall, our results suggest investors do not expect firms to avoid this tax. Instead, they appear to expect a significant portion of the corporate minimum tax to be remitted by firms and borne by shareholders.

Keywords: book minimum tax, book-tax conformity, Inflation Reduction Act

JEL Classification: H20, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gaertner, Fabio B. and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Kelley, Stacie and Pflitsch, Max, Investor Perceptions of the Book Minimum Tax (February 2, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4225049 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4225049
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies Posted: 2024
S R Baker , S T Sun , C Yannelis
Corporate Taxes and Retail Prices Posted: 2020
S Balsam , W Jiang , B Lu
Equity Incentives and Internal Control Weaknesses
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 178 - 201 Posted: 2014
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
537
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,002
RANK
118,920
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies