Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treaty Treatment of Dividend Related Payments Under Share Loan Agreements

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 2 ; p. 111-133

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Katja Dyppel Weber

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 23, 2014

Abstract

The article analyses some of the qualification and allocation challenges that dividend related payments under share loan agreements give rise to for tax treaty purposes. The analysis is based on constructed scenarios illustrating how inconsistent domestic allocation of the dividend related payments give rise to qualification and allocation conflicts for tax treaty purposes in cross-border situations. The main challenges concern to what extent dividend related payments may be covered by the term "dividends" in article 10 of the OECD double tax convention model and to what extent the lender in a share loan agreement fulfils the beneficial ownership requirement.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, loan, dividend, tax treaty, qualification conflict, beneficial ownership

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dyppel Weber, Katja, Tax Treaty Treatment of Dividend Related Payments Under Share Loan Agreements (June 23, 2014). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 2 ; p. 111-133 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226598
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies