Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Common Corporate Tax Base for Europe : An Impact Assessment of the Draft Council Directive on a CC(C)TB

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 185-221

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Martina Ortmann-Babel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Benedikt Zinn

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sebastian Matenaer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 26, 2012

Abstract

After intensive and extensive preparation, the European Commission released the long-awaited proposal for a Council Directive on a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) on 16 March 2011. In the context of the Europe 2020 Strategy, major objectives of the proposed CCCTB are the elimination of transfer pricing concerns, the removal of double taxation due to conflicting tax claims between Member States and, of course, the reduction of tax compliance costs. However, as the second and the third step of the proposed CCCTB, i.e. the consolidation and the allocation mechanism, still suffer from considerable shortcomings, the authors recommend introducing the CCCTB in two steps. In this context, this paper focuses on the first step of a CCCTB, i.e. the common corporate tax base (CCTB). The paper combines qualitative and quantitative analyses on the key differences and similarities between the proposed CCTB and current tax accounting practice in all 27 Member States, Switzerland and the United States. It offers not only a broad geographical scope, but also great detail in analysing the differences in tax accounting and quantifying the change in tax burden induced by the introduction of a CCTB in each Member State, Switzerland and the United States.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: CCCTB, corporate income tax, deductions, losses, tax burden, tax accounting

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Spengel, Christoph and Ortmann-Babel, Martina and Zinn, Benedikt and Matenaer, Sebastian, A Common Corporate Tax Base for Europe : An Impact Assessment of the Draft Council Directive on a CC(C)TB (September 26, 2012). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 185-221, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226633
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies