Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing, Integration and Synergy Intangibles : A Consensus Approach to the Arm's Length Standard

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 3 ; p. 282-314

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Mitchell Kane

New York University School of Law

Date Written: October 9, 2014

Abstract

A common critique of transfer pricing analysis under the arm's length standard is that it is conceptually incapable of dealing with synergistic gains and losses among entities under common control. Specifically, its approach of respecting the separateness of corporate entities under common control and on allocating profit across such entities by reference to a baseline of uncontrolled, but comparable, situations cannot, under this critique, account for profits from integration, as they derive from the very fact of common control. This article addresses the question whether the arm's length standard should be modified to incorporate a distinct "synergy intangible" to take account of such synergistic gains and losses. The article concludes that the introduction of a synergy intangible is undesirable, as it would not serve the core aim of transfer pricing analysis (in the treaty context) to reduce the risk of double taxation, while achieving a reasonable allocation of tax base across countries. In the service of this argument, the article introduces a three-part categorization of intangible value arising from the integration of assets: common control value, bilateral integration value and unilateral integration value. The article then urges a novel "fractional" interpretation of article 9 of the OECD Model, under which the article is read to reach only those profits that could be earned at arm's length and thus does not speak to the allocation of profits that can only be earned under common control. The paper uses this framework to suggest particular approaches for dealing with synergistic gains and losses for each of the three types of value identified: the value from common control should be left to taxpayer discretion; the value from bilateral integration should be dealt with through attention to arm's length ranges; and the value from unilateral integration should be dealt with through rules on aggregated transactions. The article concludes with prescriptive implications for the ongoing work of the OECD regarding intangibles and transfer pricing.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, OECD Model, transfer pricing, arm's length principle, intangibles, comparability analysis

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kane, Mitchell, Transfer Pricing, Integration and Synergy Intangibles : A Consensus Approach to the Arm's Length Standard (October 9, 2014). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 3 ; p. 282-314, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226602
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies