Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Economic Perspective on Double Tax Treaties with(in) Developing Countries

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 3 ; p. 242-281

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Julia Braun

Independent

Martin Zagler

- Facoltà di Economia; Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 13, 2014

Abstract

There are about 2,600 double tax treaties in the world, some 500 among industrialized economies, approximately 800 among developing economies and about 1,300 between industrialized and developing economies. Whereas the prior two categories are symmetric, the latter is asymmetric, as capital flows predominantly from industrialized to developing economies, and capital income the other way round. This article asks which developing countries have double tax treaties, whether with other developing countries or with industrialized countries. The results of the econometric analysis suggest that geography, size (GDP) and openness matter. Finally, political variables, such as colonial status, political similarity, and most strikingly development aid are correlated with the existence of a double tax treaty.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax treaty, developing countries

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Braun, Julia and Zagler, Martin, An Economic Perspective on Double Tax Treaties with(in) Developing Countries (November 13, 2014). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 6 (2014), no. 3 ; p. 242-281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226605
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies