Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exit Taxes in Norway

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 1 (2009), no. 1 ; p. 115-148

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Frederik Zimmer

University of Oslo

Date Written: October 1, 2009

Abstract

Recently introduced exit taxes in Norway apply to capital gains on shares held by individual taxpayers emigrating from Norway, to the emigration of companies and to capital gains on the transfer of assets and liabilities outside the Norwegian tax area. This article describes and analyses these rules with special reference to EEA/EC tax law and their relation to tax treaties. In particular, the requirement, in some instances, to provide a guarantee for exit taxes, taxation without any option of deferral on the migration of companies, and taxation of the transfer of inventories and intangible assets are discussed. As regards tax treaties, the focus is on whether or not the alienation of the assets has taken place before the exit, and the relationship between exit taxes and tax treaty rules allowing for an extension of the tax liability.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: exit tax, emigration

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Zimmer, Frederik, Exit Taxes in Norway (October 1, 2009). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 1 (2009), no. 1 ; p. 115-148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4229166
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies