Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Wealth Tax Harmful to Economic Growth?

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2010), no. 1 ; p. 19-34

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Åsa Hansson

Independent

Date Written: January 21, 2010

Abstract

After abolishing the wealth tax in a number of European countries during recent decades, increasing income and wealth inequality have spurred the discussion of reintroducing a wealth tax in a number of countries. This has refuelled the heated discussion in the popular press about the wealth tax's merits and harmful effects. The academic community has been considerably quieter on the merits and disadvantages of the wealth tax, however. This paper attempts to fill this gap by empirically estimating the relationship between the wealth tax and economic growth in 20 OECD countries over the time period 1980-1999. Using an instrumental-variable approach and "differenced" data to control for two types of endogeneity, the author finds fairly robust support for the popular contention that wealth taxes dampen economic growth. The estimated magnitude, however, is somewhat less alarming than popular account.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: wealth tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hansson, Åsa, Is the Wealth Tax Harmful to Economic Growth? (January 21, 2010). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2010), no. 1 ; p. 19-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4229156
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,007
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies