Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mechanism Design with Auditing and Avoidance: Tax Evasion Story

32 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 30 May 2024

Petteri Palonen

University of Helsinki - Helsinki Graduate School of Economics

Teemu Pekkarinen

University of Bonn - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 26, 2022

Abstract

We consider a principal-agent model where the agent is a taxpayer and the principal is a tax authority. The tax authority wants to know the taxpayer's income so that she can then assign an appropriate tax to the taxpayer. It is mandatory for the taxpayer to report his information to the tax authority. Furthermore, the tax authority can investigate whether the taxpayer's report was truthful. If the taxpayer is caught for misreporting, then he is punished by an exogenous fine. We assume that the taxpayer can engage in avoidance activities that undermine the tax authority's audit efforts and, thus, reduce the probability of being caught for lying. We find that whenever avoidance is cheap and efficient, then, in addition to information rent, it is optimal for the tax authority to give the taxpayer avoidance rent.

Keywords: Mechanism Design, Verification, Enforcement, Auditing, Avoidance, Fines, Tax Evasion

JEL Classification: D82, D86, L51

Suggested Citation:

Palonen, Petteri and Pekkarinen, Teemu, Mechanism Design with Auditing and Avoidance: Tax Evasion Story (September 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4230382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
D P Baron , R B Myerson
Regulating a monopolist with unknown costs
Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society , p. 911 - 930 Posted: 1982
G Casamatta
Optimal income taxation with tax avoidance
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 534 - 550 Posted: 2021
D W Diamond
Financial intermediation and delegated monitoring
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 393 - 414 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
RANK
357,528
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies