Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reforms and Debt in Greece after the Financial and Economic Crisis : Insights and Challenges for Tax Policymaking in Times of Emergency

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 3 ; 15 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Mirugia Richardson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 22, 2020

Abstract

In the area of tax and taxation the European Union, EU Member State Greece has consistently faced non-compliance by its citizens. Greece has, therefore, in the last years, under the supervision of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), taken steps to reform its tax administration and confront tax evasion. These reforms have taken place in combined EU and IMF programmes to manage Greece's recovery from its financial and economic crisis, with substantial financial assistance from the European Stability Mechanism. Numerous tax reforms have occurred, including the adoption of the Income Tax and Tax Procedure Codes and a major reform of VAT legislation. Nonetheless, Greece's shadow economy has been and remains a factor of concern for tax compliance. Furthermore, economic hardship and the financial crisis have hindered Greek taxpayers' ability to pay their tax due and propelled government debt. A substantial part of the Greek population has lived and still lives in poverty, while the Greek government continues to deal with the task of paying the debt owed to its bailout creditors. The current worldwide COVID-19 (coronavirus) crisis will certainly also impact the Greek government's ability to continue with tax reforms and debt sustainability.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax compliance, economic crisis, tax reform, tax policy, debt, black economy, tax evasion, economic development

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Richardson, Mirugia, Tax Reforms and Debt in Greece after the Financial and Economic Crisis : Insights and Challenges for Tax Policymaking in Times of Emergency (June 22, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 3 ; 15 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231095
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies