Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Disclosure Rules and Taxpayers' Rights : Where Do We Stand?

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 1 ; 16 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Carlos E. Weffe

Jaume I University - Department of Public Law

Date Written: February 3, 2021

Abstract

Curtailment of aggressive tax planning (ATP) has become a critical matter for international taxation. Mandatory disclosure rules (MDR) work as an early warning system for ATP strategies. They allow tax authorities to respond quickly to tax risks "through informed risk assessment, audits, or changes to legislation or regulations" while deterring taxpayers and tax advisers from designing, promoting or implementing ATP. MDR have become a significant trend, of which the EU Council Directive 2018/822 (DAC6) represents the most topical development. In light of the above, this study addresses the questions MDR raise regarding their "value rationality" and, therefore, its adequacy for protecting tax advisers' and taxpayers' rights. The article warns of the risk of MDR becoming a way of haunting legal tax planning, along with tax advisers and their business, and therefore a threat to the "hard core" of taxpayers? rights to legal tax planning, legal aid and nemo tenetur, along with severe limitations to the economic freedoms of both taxpayers and tax advisers. The article also discusses the audi alteram partem issues arising from the taxpayers' lack of involvement in the qualification as ATP of a given scheme, and the siege against the (legal) professional privilege that MDR represent. Finally, the article tackles the severe doubts raised by the sanctions for non-compliance with MDR, regarding legally protected rights, proportionality and culpability, as well as the use of non-monetary penalties and the communicability of evidence obtained through MDR in criminal proceedings.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: aggressive tax planning, mandatory disclosure, DAC6, legal professional privilege, taxpayer rights, penalties

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Weffe, Carlos E., Mandatory Disclosure Rules and Taxpayers' Rights : Where Do We Stand? (February 3, 2021). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 1 ; 16 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231058
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies