Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abuse Through the Use of Shell Companies and Arrangements for Tax Purposes in the European Union : Feedback on the EU Consultation by the IBFD Task Force on EU Law

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 7 ; 37 p.

62 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2022 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Date Written: October 5, 2021

Abstract

This study was developed based on the IBFD EU Task Force's submission within the framework of the European Commission 2021 public consultation on the use of shell entities and arrangements for tax purposes. The analysis of the broad ramifications of this central issue within corporate tax law and policy takes its inception from a fundamental taxonomy of the adjacent although conceptually distinct notions of aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud as well as from a thematization of the notion of substance in tax law contexts. In this respect, the authors argue that, within EU Law, these distinctions have not always been upheld consistently and such thematization may have not been fully developed, contributing to structural disconnects that may, inter alia, also jeopardize the proposed initiative. Within this study, such conceptual taxonomy is functional to laying the foundations for an assessment of some of the key articulations of the proposed initiative. In the first place, the opportunity and possible legal compatibility issues surrounding the introduction of so-called substance requirements, upon which some design recommendations are set forth without prejudice by the authors. Based on this reconstruction, rules targeting shell companies and arrangements are also addressed in both a de iure condito (from an EU and comparative tax angle) and a de iure condendo perspective, thereby including considerations on the most viable approach to hypothetically implementing such measures. Administrability issues are also explored, with specific regard to the possible tools - already available under the existing framework, or to be envisaged - meant to prevent and monitor abusive practices of shell companies. Such possible tools are assessed having in mind the concern to ensure a balance with the safeguard of the rights of taxpayers on the procedural as well as substantive planes. In the view of the authors, such a balance may be conducive to the reshaping of cross-border relations between taxpayers and administrations within the European Union.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: letter-box company, aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance, tax evasion, tax fraud, corporate income tax, substance over form, de minimis, safe harbour

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and Turina, Alessandro and Lazarov, Ivan, Abuse Through the Use of Shell Companies and Arrangements for Tax Purposes in the European Union : Feedback on the EU Consultation by the IBFD Task Force on EU Law (October 5, 2021). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 7 ; 37 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Which harmonised the general anti-avoidance rules (GAARs) of the Member States as applied to companies
Room Document # 3, Working Party on Tax Questions -Direct Taxation, PSD Anti-Abuse rule
Highlights & Insights on European Taxation Posted: 2015
Uk
Cadbury Schweppes and Cadbury Schweppes Overseas, EU:C:2006:544, para Posted: 2006-09-12
L Ambagtsheer-Pakarinen
Sweden -Corporate Taxation sec
Country Tax Guides IBFD Posted: 2021-07-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies