Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Countries and the Proposed Article 12B of the UN Model : Some Known Unknowns

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 6 ; 22 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Betty Andrade

Independent

Date Written: August 26, 2021

Abstract

Article 12B of the UN Model is presented as an alternative for developing countries to the OECD's Pillar One global proposal. It would be a simpler option in its implementation, operating through a system of withholding taxes, which could generate fewer disputes arising from its interpretation. This proposal could also mean higher revenues for source states than what is offered by Pillar One by attributing a significant portion of revenues to the jurisdiction of the payer. Article 12B could also provide an option to avoid the double taxation of unilateral measures, should they continue over time. However, article 12B of the UN Model also presents some elements that need attention, such as (i) the fact that it constitutes a ring-fencing proposal; (ii) the uncertain definition of the concept of "payer"; (iii) the involvement of financial institutions as withholding agents; (iv) the possible distribution of income among a smaller number of jurisdictions as a consequence of the connection factor selected; and (v) the use of gross income as the basis for calculation. This determines that article 12B has clear strengths and weaknesses in comparison with the other proposals for the taxation of the digital economy that are analysed throughout the article (i.e. Pillar One and digital services tax).

Full-text Paper

Keywords: developing countries, UN Model, digital economy, allocation of taxing rights, value creation, ring-fencing, Pillar 1 (OECD), withholding tax, DST

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Andrade, Betty, Developing Countries and the Proposed Article 12B of the UN Model : Some Known Unknowns (August 26, 2021). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 6 ; 22 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231077
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies