Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Protection in Direct Tax Matters and Developments from the EU Standpoint : The Case of Automatic Exchange of Information

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 4 ; 20 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Stefano Maria Ronco

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 23, 2020

Abstract

The goal of this contribution is to address the complex relationship between taxation law and the protection of taxpayers' data, primarily from the perspective of EU data protection law and in connection with mechanisms of exchange of information. This article points out at the outset that the legislation protecting personal data in tax matters at EU level is still rather fragmented, and that the body of jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights has not yet fully developed specific guidance, especially as regards the compatibility of automatic exchange of information with the right to the protection of personal data. In light of this, the research takes as a reference point the case law on the right to the protection of personal data in matters not related to taxation, with a view to assessing whether useful indications and principles could be transposed to the field of taxation. In addition, the analysis offers some insights into (i) the available safeguards in the hands of taxpayers during the processing of their personal data by tax authorities; and (ii) the consequences of the adoption of the General Data Protection Regulation for Directive 2011/16/EU on exchange of information in tax matters, and for international agreements based on the FATCA and CRS frameworks.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: data protection, direct tax, taxpayer rights, automatic exchange of information, FATCA, CRS, ECJ case law, ECHR case law, proportionality

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ronco, Stefano Maria, Data Protection in Direct Tax Matters and Developments from the EU Standpoint : The Case of Automatic Exchange of Information (September 23, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 4 ; 20 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231098
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
217
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies