Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Work on the Move” : Rethinking Taxation of Labour Income Under Tax Treaties

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 2 ; 26 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Giorgio Beretta

Carlo Cattaneo - LIUC University

Date Written: March 29, 2022

Abstract

Labour, in all its dimensions, has been “on the move” in the last few years. Before the pandemic, labour mobility has mostly interested only a fraction of the working population, such as highly skilled and high-net-worth individuals. COVID-19 has, however, expanded the extent of labour mobility and the categories of workers involved. This contribution discusses four major changes in labour patterns: (i) home office work; (ii) non-standard forms of employment; (iii) digital nomadism; and (iv) the decentralization of jobs. In particular, the article illustrates how a “work-from-anywhere” scenario may impact the taxation of labour income under tax treaties. Using mainly the OECD Model as a reference, the article discusses difficulties related to the application of physical presence as a sourcing rule for employment income, the distinction between dependent and self-employment income, and the concepts of home office and fixed base. Based on the analysis provided, the author formulates tentative proposals for reforming the current tax treaty treatment of labour income. Specific recommendations include the introduction of a new article jointly dealing with the taxation of labour income, a reviewed scope of application of the physical presence criterion and tax treaty definitions of home office and fixed base.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: employment income, tax treaty, home office, PE, self-employment, fixed base, business profits, OECD Model, COVID-19 pandemic

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Beretta, Giorgio, “Work on the Move” : Rethinking Taxation of Labour Income Under Tax Treaties (March 29, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 2 ; 26 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231038
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
397
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies