Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MNE Strategic Responses to the GloBE Rules

40 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2022

Heydon Wardell-Burrus

Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper considers the incentives created for MNEs under the Pillar 2 GloBE Rules and makes four key contributions. First, it sets out a framework for MNE strategic responses to undertaxed excess profits in the group (‘pay-up’, ‘shift (back)’, ‘sell’, ‘blend’ and ‘shelter’). Second, it theorises the creation of two new valuable tax attributes which are created under the GloBE Rules (Covered Taxes and SBIE). Third, it considers how these new attributes create incentives which introduce new distortions into the system with respect to the location and ownership of investments. Finally, it questions whether the outcomes of these strategies ought to be considered problematic and asks what countermeasures could be considered by states in response to perceived integrity concerns.

Keywords: Pillar Two, Pillar 2, GloBE Rules, Inclusive Framework

Suggested Citation:

Wardell-Burrus, Heydon, MNE Strategic Responses to the GloBE Rules (September 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4231683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
662
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
90,955
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies