Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Global Minimum Tax : Some Known Unknowns

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 5 ; 5 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Tommaso Di Tanno

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 20, 2022

Abstract

In order to address the fundamental challenges for the international tax regime brought about by the digitalization of the economy and new forms of potentially harmful tax competition, the G20 summit of October 2021 called for a commitment to the implementation of the Global Minimum Tax Proposal developed by the OECD within the framework of the Two-Pillar solution, aiming at 2023 as an implementation deadline. The breadth and technical complexity of the OECD Model Rules and the OECD Guidelines, as well as the Directive Proposal released by the EU Commission in December 2021, offer several inputs for further reflection, also considering the evolving international policy and political framework. The main purpose of this contribution is to highlight the most pivotal “known unknowns” of the proposed set of measures so as to stimulate further debate on the topic.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: global minimum tax, harmful tax competition, Pillar 2 (OECD), tax rate, substance requirements, adjustment (of income, capital), carry-over, top-up tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Di Tanno, Tommaso, The Global Minimum Tax : Some Known Unknowns (June 20, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 5 ; 5 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231047
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies