Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing Value Creation and the Value Chain of Data Businesses

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 2 ; 26 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

nupur jalan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jan Winterhalter

University Leipzig; Weizenbaum Institute Berlin

Date Written: March 17, 2021

Abstract

The notion of value creation is gaining traction. Even the OECD emphasized aligning profit taxation with economic activity and value creation in the BEPS Actions 8-10 Final Reports. Further, the modern innovative business models in this era of the digital/data economy are giving rise to highly integrated value chains. The question arises as to (i) how to accurately describe these value chains in a manner that makes the value creation and value-capturing of data and digital business transparent for tax purposes; and (ii) how to analyse modern businesses acting in their very own and unique data ecosystems. Therefore, this article discusses the value creation and value chain aspects of data-driven businesses. Considering the above, this article first discusses the background of value chain analysis and its commonly used methods for transfer pricing purposes. Second, it attempts to establish a link between the concept of value creation in the data economy and the evolving data-driven business models and examines possible value chain analyses that might be able to describe these models properly. As an interim conclusion, the authors express the need for an adjustment of the current value chain analysis for digital/data-driven businesses, as it fails to integrate the ways in which the digital data ecosystem works. Therefore, for business models that rely heavily on data and for transactions that are data-intense/data-driven, the authors propose a quantitative approach, whereby the residual profit is attributed not only to profit and investment centres, but also to data function. As it is crucial for such a value chain analysis to appropriately reflect value creation, the authors also propose a framework of digital documentation tools to understand the economic reasoning behind those businesses.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy, value creation, value chain analysis, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

jalan, nupur and Winterhalter, Jan, Analysing Value Creation and the Value Chain of Data Businesses (March 17, 2021). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 2 ; 26 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231062
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies