Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compatibility between the OECD's Hard-to-Value Intangibles Methodology and the Arm's Length Standard : What is the Way Forward?

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 8 ; 18 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Cristian Camilo Rodríguez Peña

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 17, 2020

Abstract

This article studies the compatibility between the hard-to-value intangibles (HTVIs) methodology adopted by the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines (OECD TPG) 2017 and the arm's length standard (ALS). This new methodology provides tax administrations with a useful tool for dealing with the information asymmetry problem in relation to taxpayers when assessing transactions involving intangibles for which the valuation is highly uncertain. However, certain features of this new approach may contradict the ALS as enshrined in article 9(1) of the OECD Model and, consequently, as internalized at a domestic level within the income tax law and tax treaty network of many jurisdictions around the world. In this context, this article provides a comprehensive analysis of the OECD's HTVIs methodology, from its conception in the United States to its final incorporation within the TPG, the tensions with the ALS that may lead to normative conflicts in different jurisdictions, and, lastly, the possible solutions that could amend this discrepancy.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: intangibles, hard-to-value intangibles, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, arm's length principle, commensurate with income standard

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rodríguez Peña, Cristian Camilo, Compatibility between the OECD's Hard-to-Value Intangibles Methodology and the Arm's Length Standard : What is the Way Forward? (December 17, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 8 ; 18 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231110
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
220
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies