Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation in the Digital Economy : Recent Policy Developments and the Question of Value Creation

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2019), no. 3 ; 13 p.

Posted: 2 Dec 2022

Marcel Olbert

Independent

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: April 29, 2019

Abstract

This article reviews the evidence regarding the challenges of digitalization for direct (corporate profit) and indirect (consumption) taxation. Based on both anecdotal and empirical evidence, the authors evaluate ongoing developments at the OECD and EU level and argue that there is no justification for introducing a new tax order for digital businesses. In particular, the significant digital presence and the digital services tax as put forward by the European Commission will most likely distort corporate decisions and spur on tax competition. To contribute to the development of tax rules in line with value creation as the gold standard for profit taxation, the article discusses data as a 'new' value-driving asset in the digital economy. It draws on insights from interdisciplinary research to highlight that the value of data emerges through proprietary activities conducted within businesses. The authors ultimately discuss how existing transfer pricing solutions can be adapted to business models employing data mining.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy, value creation, direct tax, indirect tax, BEPS Project (OECD), significant digital presence, DST, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Olbert, Marcel and Spengel, Christoph, Taxation in the Digital Economy : Recent Policy Developments and the Question of Value Creation (April 29, 2019). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 2 (2019), no. 3 ; 13 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231124
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies