Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Under Which Conditions Would the ATAD's GAAR Benefit from Automatic Decision-Making in Terms of Legal Certainty and Efficiency?

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 7 ; 23 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Matheus Peixoto Behrends

IBDT - Instituto Brasileiro de Direito Tributário

Date Written: August 25, 2022

Abstract

In this article, the author scrutinized the limitations on tax administrations when it comes to enhancing legal certainty and efficiency via automatica decision-making (ADM) models until the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive and general anti-avoidance rules. A lack of clarity and certainty is identified under the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive's general anti-avoidance rule framework. To curb this issue, the Court of Justice of the European Union's case lae is a vital source for enhancing integrability with any ADM model. Taxpayers' rights are found to be limited by transparency breaches and data misuse under ADM, mainly in respect of black-box models. An ideal hybrid approach is identified for artificial intelligence, via machine learning and traditional computer mechanisms, since it uses sufficiently less data and requires only a good model understanding. Based on a practical simulation approach, facts and patterns are extracted from case law. If certain conditions are met, findings show that, departing from the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive's general anti-abuse rule tests, the motive and artificiality test are more prone to automatization than the defeat-of-object-of-purpose test. All of them benefit from the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on automated scenarios. Thus, the application of enhanced ADM model issues may be addressed by including human beings in the loop.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: ATAD, GAAR, artificial intelligence

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Peixoto Behrends, Matheus, Under Which Conditions Would the ATAD's GAAR Benefit from Automatic Decision-Making in Terms of Legal Certainty and Efficiency? (August 25, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 7 ; 23 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231051
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies