Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Systematic Introduction to Tax and Technology

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 3 ; 23 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Claudio Cipollini

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Centre for Tax Law

Date Written: April 13, 2022

Abstract

Despite the growing interest of the international tax community, tax and technology still does not have clear definitional boundaries within the outline of academic disciplines. On these premises, this study aims to provide a first systematic approach to this knowledge area starting from a comprehensive review and taxonomy of the literature in the field. In this direction, the conceptual analysis of the scholars’ work reveals the following key aspects characterizing the area of tax and technology: the interconnection with the law and technology theory, the supranational dimension centred on the adoption of soft law instruments, the existence of well-defined legal grounds consisting of the principle of tax equity and the principle of tax efficiency, as well as the use of a specific methodology focusing on functional analysis, interdisciplinary research and the de iure ferenda perspective. Based on these findings, it results that tax and technology, although not founded on its exclusive principles, presents a sufficient degree of autonomy to be considered as an academic subdiscipline under the main umbrella of tax law studies. In the end, the author puts in evidence the opportunities arising from such a systematic approach by considering the potential impact on both research and education.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax technology, digital economy, collection of tax, tax transparency, tax simplification, taxpayer rights, developing countries

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cipollini, Claudio, A Systematic Introduction to Tax and Technology (April 13, 2022). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 5 (2022), no. 3 ; 23 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231042
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
255
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies