Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Look at Tax Sparing Clauses in the 21st Century as Tools for the Implementation of Tax Incentives from the Perspective of Developing Countries

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 7 ; 60 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Betty Andrade

Independent

Date Written: December 9, 2020

Abstract

Over 20 years after the OECD issued the 1998 Report by the Committee on Fiscal Affairs (Tax Sparing: A Reconsideration), it is appropriate to revisit the reasons that the OECD used for discouraging the use of such clauses, re-evaluating the soundness of such reasons under the current circumstances. Although tax treaties signed in the 21st century show a reduction in the use of such clauses, they are still part of international treaty practice. However, the most recent model clauses incorporate some remedies that prevent their abuse, taking into account some of the OECD's recommendations included in the 1998 Report. Tax sparing clauses are vital international instruments used to retain the effectiveness of tax incentives in respect of multinational entities by avoiding a situation in which a reduction in taxation in the host country increases taxation in the residence country. Therefore, tax sparing clauses can only be analysed considering the fundamentals of tax incentives, understanding that the former support the latter. While the OECD has advised the limited and exceptional use of tax incentives and the mechanisms for their incorporation through the use of tax sparing clauses, respect for sovereignty has been used as a strong argument against these recommendations. However, there are valid reasons justifying the full but cautious use of tax incentives and in combination with tax sparing clauses. The assessment of the adequacy of specific-purpose tax incentives will depend on a number of complex social, economic and political factors that start by analysing the financial and government systems of the state that provides the tax incentive. Tax incentives can prove to be efficient or inefficient depending on the purpose that the state pursues and the means to achieve these objectives, so it is not possible to universally sustain the inconvenience of developing countries using tax incentives as part of their tax policy. This will clearly influence the negotiation of the use of tax sparing clauses in bilateral treaties. In addition, the drafting of modern tax sparing clauses should aim to tackle their use beyond their main purpose and in line with controlled foreign corporation rules and other minimum taxation provisions as envisaged in the framework of the Pillar 2 debate.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax sparing credit, developing countries, tax incentive, treaty policy, Pillar 2 (OECD), CFC, minimum tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Andrade, Betty, A Look at Tax Sparing Clauses in the 21st Century as Tools for the Implementation of Tax Incentives from the Perspective of Developing Countries (December 9, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 7 ; 60 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231107
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies