Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of the Concept of Technical Services and the Policy Considerations Driving Their Development

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 3 ; 24 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Patrícia Duarte da Conceição Machado

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 3, 2021

Abstract

When dealing with situations in which technical services are paid by an enterprise to a non-resident service provider, the tax implications from both a domestic and treaty standpoint are quite varied. Although typically subject to withholding tax in the source state, the specific treaty and domestic law provisions that apply to cross-border technical services have changed over the past decades. Yet, more profound changes are still needed, especially when developing countries are involved. Developing countries have played a significant role in driving policy changes in respect of the taxation of technical services. This, however, should not be seen as an initiative going against the interests of developed countries under the auspices of the globalized attempt to counter BEPS. In this sense, assessing how the meaning and interpretation has (or should have) evolved over time and which policy considerations have driven such changes is fundamental for the evaluation of the allocation of taxing rights between the source and residence states in terms of effectiveness.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: allocation of taxing rights, technical services, OECD Model, UN Model, withholding tax, developing countries

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Duarte da Conceição Machado, Patrícia, Evolution of the Concept of Technical Services and the Policy Considerations Driving Their Development (May 3, 2021). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2021), no. 3 ; 24 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231066
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies