Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Article 6 of the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive – Living a Life on Its Own?

Accepted in European Business Law Review

Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper

24 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2022 Last revised: 28 Nov 2022

Moritz Scherleitner

Aalto, Business Law

Jasper Korving

Maastricht University

Date Written: June 28, 2022

Abstract

Art. 6 of the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) includes a minimum harmonization standard for so-called General Anti Abuse Rules (GAARs) in the field of corporate income taxation. A significant number of Member States has not enacted the provision but referred to their domestic law already fulfilling the demands of the directive. While this is possible, it could point towards a lack of awareness of what ramifications Art. 6 ATAD has on Member States´ tax systems. Against this background, the article aims to shed light on the life Art. 6 ATAD has, as part of EU law, begun to live on its own. In doing so, we will reflect on five dimensions: (i) the impact of the Philipp Morris line of case law on Member States´ ability to go beyond the minimum standard included in Art. 6 ATAD, (ii) the relation between Art. 6 ATAD and EU´s general anti-abuse principle, (iii) the impact of the EU fundamental rights protection on the application of the national implementation of Art. 6 ATAD, as well as (iv) the interpretational insights to be won from other secondary EU and (v) state aid provisions.

Keywords: ATAD, Article 6, EU law, GAAR

Suggested Citation:

Scherleitner, Moritz and Korving, Jasper, Article 6 of the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive – Living a Life on Its Own? (June 28, 2022). Accepted in European Business Law Review, Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,901
RANK
126,595
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies