Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of High-Reputation Auditors in Mitigating Tax Avoidance in Private Firms with Concentrated Ownership 

48 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2022 Last revised: 4 Mar 2024

Michael Kisser

BI Norwegian Business School

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

Marleen Willekens

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL)

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

This paper documents a novel benefit of mandatory auditing in private firms with concentrated ownership which  typically engage less in tax avoidance. Mandating audits for private firms obscures information which could otherwise be derived from firms’ voluntary audit choice. We argue that having a high-reputation auditor, such as a Big N firm, serves as a signal and has an influence on tax avoidance. First, we hypothesize  that high-reputation auditors are less tolerant towards tax avoidance efforts to maintain their reputation. Secondly, for firms with concentrated ownership, we hypothesize that such high-reputation auditing functions as a credible monitoring mechanism mitigating the cost of tax avoidance associated with concentrated ownership in private  firms. Analyzing data from Norwegian private firms with detailed ownership records, we show that both predictions are borne out in the data. Our main contribution is to demonstrate that in a mandatory audit setting, engaging a high-reputation auditor mitigates the costs of tax avoidance associated with concentrated ownership. These findings hold over time and firm size, and we find further evidence supporting a causal relationship between a high-reputation auditor and the reduction of tax avoidance.

Keywords: Auditing, private firms, tax avoidance, ownership concentration, risk aversion, horizontal agency costs

JEL Classification: G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kisser, Michael and Langli, John Christian and Willekens, Marleen, The Role of High-Reputation Auditors in Mitigating Tax Avoidance in Private Firms with Concentrated Ownership  (March 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4232128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4232128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Rashad A Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand auditing? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Accountancy Europe Posted: 2020
Kristian D Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Daniel Aobdia , Saad Siddiqui , Andres Vinelli
Heterogeneity in expertise in a credence goods setting: evidence from audit partners
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 26 , p. 693 - 729 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,201
RANK
345,859
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies