Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxable Income Elasticities in Developing Countries: Evidence From Ecuador

33 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2022 Last revised: 19 Aug 2023

Jose G. Castillo

ESPOL Polytechnic University, College of Social Sciences and Humanities

Natalia Bermúdez

Gent University; Université Catholique de Louvain

Date Written: September 29, 2022

Abstract

Tax reforms involve welfare changes that need to be consistently measured. Pivotal parameter in such empirical efforts is the Elasticity of Taxable Income (ETI). This paper contributes to the estimation of the ETI in developing economies. We rely on a research design based on Ecuador's Reformatory Law of Tax Equity of 2007. By using personal income tax administrative records, we show that, on average, the ETI (net-of-MTR) of the aggregated gross income is around -0.23. Also, we find evidence of heterogeneous responses to tax policy shocks through changes in Marginal Tax Rates, conditional on income levels; a one percentage point increase in the MTR leads to an increase of 0.15 percentage points of the aggregated gross income in lower-income taxpayers, while for higher-income taxpayers we report a null effect. Results are robust to different specifications and adjustments proposed due to parallel changes in deduction policies.

Keywords: taxable income elasticity, tax reform, marginal tax rates, labor supply

JEL Classification: H2, H21, H24, H31, J22

Suggested Citation:

Castillo, Jose G. and Bermúdez, Natalia, Taxable Income Elasticities in Developing Countries: Evidence From Ecuador (September 29, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4233450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4233450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies