Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hundreds and thousands: bunching at positive, salient tax balances and the cost of reducing tax liabilities

38 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2023

Robert V. Breunig

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy; Tax and Transfer Policy Institute (Crawford School of Public Policy, ANU); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Nathan Deutscher

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Steven Hamilton

George Washington University - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 19, 2022

Abstract

Australian taxpayers display reference-dependent preferences when filing their tax returns - they bunch at positive and salient thresholds. We develop a model of taxpayer behavior to show that bunching heterogeneity reflects both differences in preferences and the rate at which the marginal cost of reducing one's tax liability increases. Consistent with this model, bunching has grown alongside electronically prepared returns over recent decades and the subsequent responses of tax agents. Taxpayers receiving these balances are more likely to stay with their tax agent, but do not pay higher fees. Consistent with having flatter cost curves, `high-bunching' agents deliver larger balances more generally and do so by lifting deductions and lowering reported income for return items where audits are costly.

Keywords: bunching, tax refunds, taxpayer behavior, tax agent

JEL Classification: D03, D90, H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Breunig, Robert V. and Deutscher, Nathan and Hamilton, Steven, Hundreds and thousands: bunching at positive, salient tax balances and the cost of reducing tax liabilities (September 19, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4237002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4237002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies