Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes, Regulations and Business Structure in the US

56 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2022 Last revised: 6 Oct 2022

Mehmet Tayyip Demir

Arizona State University (ASU) - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 20, 2022

Abstract

The United States faced a substantial reallocation of output among the legal forms of businesses from 1980 to 2015. The output share of pass-through entities (S-corporations, LLCs, partnerships, sole proprietorships) more than doubled, while that of C-corporations declined by one-third. Over the same period, the US changed the structure of taxes and regulations considerably. Using a dynamic growth model with an occupation choice and uninsurable entrepreneurial risk, I study the extent to which changes in taxation and regulations can account for the observed reallocation of output. My quantitative results indicate that change in tax rates explains roughly 14 percent of the reallocation of output share observed in the US. I also find that considering the financial market improvement upon pass-through entities, the tax changes explain one-fourth of the reallocation of output. Lastly, regulatory changes, mimicked by overhead costs, and the capacity to reduce the tax liability of business income can lead to a substantial output reallocation toward pass-through entities.

Keywords: Business Taxation, Regulations, Output Reallocation, Pass-through En- tities

JEL Classification: E60, K20, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Demir, Mehmet Tayyip, Taxes, Regulations and Business Structure in the US (September 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4239185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4239185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
RANK
490,153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies