Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Carbon Taxes Kill Jobs? Firm-Level Evidence from British Columbia

Climate Change Economics, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2022

Deven Azevedo

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Economics

Hendrik Wolff

University of Washington - Department of Economics

Akio Yamazaki

University of Calgary - Department of Economics; National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS)

Date Written: October 8, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the employment impacts of British Columbia’s revenue neutral carbon tax. Using the synthetic control method with firm-level data, we find considerable heterogeneity in employment responses to the policy. We show that firm size matters. In particular, the carbon tax had a negative impact on large emission-intensive firms, but simultaneous tax cuts and transfers increased the purchasing power of low income households, substantially benefiting small businesses in the service sector and food/clothing manufacturing. Furthermore, we find that aggregate employment was not adversely affected by the policy. Our results provide additional insight for the “job-shifting hypothesis” of revenue neutral carbon taxes.

Keywords: Carbon tax; Employment; Unilateral climate policy; Firms

JEL Classification: E24, H23, J2, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Azevedo, Deven and Wolff, Hendrik and Yamazaki, Akio and Yamazaki, Akio, Do Carbon Taxes Kill Jobs? Firm-Level Evidence from British Columbia (October 8, 2022). Climate Change Economics, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4242152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,491
RANK
156,431
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies