Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
So close and yet so far: The ability of mandatory disclosure rules to crack down on offshore tax evasion

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 104

45 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2022

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Mohammed Mardan

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science; Norwegian Center for Taxation; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Rohit Reddy Muddasani

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

We study the short-term effect of the introduction of the mandatory disclosure program for aggressive tax arrangements by focusing on the one introduced in May 2018 under the Council Directive 2018/288/EU (or DAC6). Employing bilateral data on cross-border deposits, we study the effect of this new disclosure requirement on cross-border tax evasion. Our results show a reduction of cross-border deposits in EU countries with a strong enforcement, captured by large monetary penalties for misreporting. At the same time, we document a relocation of income and wealth to countries with limited intermediary reporting obligation. Finally, we detect a short-term increase of USD 14 billion in cross-border deposits held by residents of countries offering citizenship/residence by investment programs, suggesting the use of these schemes as regulatory arbitrage to circumvent the disclosure mandated under DAC6. We provide timely and relevant evidence contributing to the debate on international administrative cooperation to reduce cross-border tax evasion.

Keywords: tax evasion, intermediary disclosure, administrative cooperation, cross-border transactions, bank deposits

JEL Classification: H26, G21, F42

Suggested Citation:

Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Mardan, Mohammed and Mardan, Mohammed and Muddasani, Rohit Reddy, So close and yet so far: The ability of mandatory disclosure rules to crack down on offshore tax evasion (October 10, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4243856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4243856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,214
RANK
211,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies