Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Cuts as Emergency Policy Intervention: Evidence from the UK Case

19 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2022

Claudio A. Piga

Università degli Studi di Genova - Economics

Luisanna Onnis

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

Maurizio Conti

Università degli Studi di Genova

Anna Bottasso

University of Genoa

Date Written: October 26, 2022

Abstract

In July 2020, the UK government reduced the VAT rate on hospitality services from 20% to 5%, as response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We compile a novel dataset of detailed hotel room characteristics around this policy action in order to estimate how much the tax cut was passed on to consumers via a price reduction. We find a statistically significant contemporaneous pass-through to hotel room prices that varies between around 20% and 50%, with a peak effect on prices observed on the second week after the reform. However, the pass-through effect is short-lived and disappears two months after the policy introduction.

Keywords: VAT cut, pass-through, hospitality, COVID-19 policy

JEL Classification: H22, H25, L83

Suggested Citation:

Piga, Claudio A. and Onnis, Luisanna and Conti, Maurizio and Bottasso, Anna, VAT Cuts as Emergency Policy Intervention: Evidence from the UK Case (October 26, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4259245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4259245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
432,122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies