Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in U.S. Multinational Firms’ Investment and Income Shifting after the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA)

51 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2022 Last revised: 17 May 2023

Linda K. Krull

University of Oregon

Juan Wu

University of Washington Tacoma

Date Written: June 20, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent to which the GILTI (global intangible low-taxed income) tax and FDII (foreign-derived intangible income) deduction affect how U.S. multinational firms’ investment and income shifting strategies change after the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act or TCJA). Overall, we find evidence that U.S. multinationals increase worldwide capital expenditures after the Act by 1.7 to 2.0 percent of property, plant, and equipment. We also find evidence that the GILTI tax is associated with an increase in foreign tangible assets of 3.2 percent of property, plant, and equipment, but no evidence that the FDII deduction is associated with a decrease in domestic investment. The evidence also suggests that firms with foreign tax rates between 21 percent and 35 percent shift 80 percent less income out of the U.S. following the Act. This effect is driven by the GILTI-FDII framework, suggesting that these provisions achieved their intended effect.

Keywords: partial territorial taxation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, TCJA, investment, income shifting, GILTI, FDII, corporate tax rate cut

JEL Classification: M00, M4, M41, H2, H25

Suggested Citation:

Krull, Linda K. and Wu, Juan, Changes in U.S. Multinational Firms’ Investment and Income Shifting after the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) (June 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4260654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4260654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,123
RANK
293,720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies