Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of GST on motor and pump exports in India

13 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2022

Raghuveer Negi

Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Kolkata; Management Development Institute (MDI), Gurgaon; Alagappa University - Department of International Business

Date Written: October 20, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: The impact of Goods and Service Tax (GST) on the motor and pump exports in the Coimbatore region is measured in this study using various parameters and scales. The data collected from exporters were used to identify the pros and cons of GST, stating their opinions on variables considered by the researchers through extensive literature on GST and exports.

Design/methodology/approach: The data were collected from 220 motors and pump exporters through a field survey from the month of January to September 2021. The impacts have been measured using principal component analysis (PCA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). The factor analyses and CFA will derive the positive and negative impact of GST determined through critical empirical evidence in this study. Also, the problems faced by the exporters allied to GST, which the authors could not include in the questionnaire due to certain reasons, are concisely apportioned and discussed.

Findings: The study depicts the major advantages of GST, such as harmonized system, long-run performance, reduction in logistics cost, check-post operation, bonds and ease of doing business. Also, it highlights the disadvantages of GST, such as biases in the indirect tax system, the reimbursement of duty drawback being late or pending and document filing was still a tedious job under the GST regime.

Originality/value: The unavailability of considerable literature on the impact of GST on Indian exports signifies the novelty of this research. So far, this is the first empirical attempt to measure the impact of GST on exports which is a unique and original attempt to highlight the problem that lies under the GST regime and the necessary reforms the tax structure needs in the context of Indian exports.

Keywords: GST; exports; motor; pumps; tax; goods & service tax

JEL Classification: H21; H24; H25

Suggested Citation:

Negi, Raghuveer, Impact of GST on motor and pump exports in India (October 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4261031 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4261031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies