Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Revenue Neutrality in Carbon Taxation Possible in Practice? Lessons from the Canadian Experience

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 70, No. 3, 2022, pp. 563-593

32 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2022

Joel Wood

Thompson Rivers University - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: October 31, 2022

Abstract

While the potential economic efficiency, equity, and political acceptability benefits of a revenue-neutral carbon tax have been well studied, a deeper question remains about the feasibility of revenue neutrality in practice. This article provides perspective on this issue by assessing different definitions of revenue neutrality and presenting an in-depth discussion of the motivations for the adoption of revenue-neutral carbon taxes. Two examples of carbon taxes and revenue recycling implemented in Canada are examined: British Columbia’s revenue-neutral carbon tax (a carbon tax with offsetting tax cuts) and the Canadian federal government’s fuel charge and climate
action incentive tax credit (a carbon tax and dividend). The BC case serves to highlight the inherent difficulties of assessing revenue neutrality owing to uncertainty about what would have occurred in the absence of the tax. As time passes following initial implementation of the tax, it becomes increasingly difficult to determine whether, and to what extent, government revenue, income tax rates, the overall tax structure, and the tax base might have differed had the tax not been adopted. The federal example suggests that a carbon tax and dividend policy would be better able to ensure
revenue neutrality.

Keywords: Carbon Pricing, Carbon Taxes, Tax Revenues, Greenhouse Gas, Green Tax, Emissions Reduction Strategy

JEL Classification: Q54,Q58

Suggested Citation:

Wood, Joel, Is Revenue Neutrality in Carbon Taxation Possible in Practice? Lessons from the Canadian Experience (October 31, 2022). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 70, No. 3, 2022, pp. 563-593, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4267328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
863
RANK
528,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies