Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Effort and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Audit Firms’ Tax Adjustments in China

53 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2022

Xiaomei Han

Nanjing University of Science and Technology

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Liansheng Wu

Southern University of Science and Technology

Qiuhang Xing

Peking University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: November 9, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the effect of audit effort on tax avoidance using a unique dataset of audit hours and tax adjustments in China. When audit effort is greater, audit firms' constraining effect on tax avoidance, as measured by upward tax adjustments to pre-audited tax numbers, is greater. This result suggests that financial statement audits can constrain tax avoidance. The positive effect of audit effort on upward tax adjustments is less pronounced in clients with analyst following and when clients are more economically important to audit firms. Further analyses indicate that audit effort's positive effect on upward tax adjustments is weaker for Big 10 audit firm clients or clients are state-owned enterprises.

Keywords: Audit effort; Tax avoidance; Financial statement audit; Tax adjustments

JEL Classification: H26; M42

Suggested Citation:

Han, Xiaomei and Omer, Thomas C. and Wu, Liansheng and Xing, Qiuhang and Zhou, Jian, Audit Effort and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Audit Firms’ Tax Adjustments in China (November 9, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4271860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4271860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
375,525
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies