Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Brave (and Uncertain) New World of International Taxation under the 2020s Compromise

World Tax Journal vol 14 issue 2, 2022

28 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2022

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 9, 2022

Abstract

When significant changes are made to the way the world allocates the right to tax cross-border income, there is an obvious need to assess whether the new regime is an appropriate response to the challenges posed by the perceived problems in the old regime. This article has two objectives: first, to show that the proposed changes to the international tax regime relating to the taxation of business profits are so significant that they are regarded as absolutely fundamental. Secondly, and far more controversially, to assert that the changes are brave and appropriate irrespective of the final assessment of these changes (which could be in a decade from now). This article asserts that the 2020s Compromise is a positive step forward for four reasons. First, and most importantly, it was necessary to overcome the deficiencies of the previous regime, particularly for large MNEs with a significant digital business footprint. Three other factors suggest that history might regard some of these changes as brave. These are: more effective source taxation with a partial move to taxation at destination, the rise of multilateral instruments and processes, and the increase in tax cooperation between countries or the reduction of tax competition. However, the absence of an articulated theoretical basis for taxation means both uncertainty and instability in the international tax framework for some time.

Keywords: 1920 and 2020s compromise, international tax, tax avoidance, destination tax, transfer pricing, sustainability of tax

JEL Classification: K34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, The Brave (and Uncertain) New World of International Taxation under the 2020s Compromise (May 9, 2022). World Tax Journal vol 14 issue 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4277109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,119
RANK
222,859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies