Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Separating Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services: Audit Quality Implications

Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory (Forthcoming)

59 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

James Chyz

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Ronen Gal-Or

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Vic Naiker

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 16, 2022

Abstract

This study uses a unique dataset that separates tax non-audit services (NAS) into tax planning and compliance NAS to examine how audit quality is affected by these two types of tax NAS. Our main results, which account for decisions to purchase and disclose the breakdown of tax NAS, show that audit quality is unaffected by tax planning NAS, but is positively associated with tax compliance NAS. These findings suggest that the knowledge spillovers between tax NAS and audit quality documented in prior studies is attributable to tax compliance NAS. Additional tests reveal that the effect of tax compliance NAS is amplified by auditor industry expertise. We also find that tax planning NAS in the presence of powerful CEOs and audit firm culture that relies on client advocacy has a negative effect on audit quality. These latter findings are consistent with engagement-level tax planning NAS degrading audit quality in certain settings.

Keywords: tax non-audit services; audit quality, misstatements

JEL Classification: M40, H25

Suggested Citation:

Chyz, James and Gal-Or, Ronen and Naiker, Vic, Separating Auditor Provided Tax Planning and Tax Compliance Services: Audit Quality Implications (November 16, 2022). Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4278742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
811
RANK
288,883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies