Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Transparency in Corporate Sustainability Reporting

60 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Jillian R. Adams

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business

Elizabeth Demers

University of Waterloo

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 03, 2025

Abstract

Voluntary tax disclosure has become increasingly important in corporate sustainability reporting, yet little is known about the determinants and information content of these disclosures. We conduct textual analysis on more than 15,000 sustainability reports issued by 2,745 firms across 29 countries to examine the determinants of these voluntary tax disclosures, as well as their signaling value for the firm’s tax aggressiveness and their associations with the information asymmetry between the firm and its shareholders. After explicitly modeling the endogenous disclosure decision, we find that firms that voluntarily provide tax disclosures tend to be less tax-aggressive prior to disclosure, and further decrease aggressive behavior after disclosure. Our findings are consistent with less tax-aggressive firms signaling their virtue and demonstrating a commitment to implementing less aggressive tax plans going forward. We also find that voluntary tax disclosures are statistically and economically significantly associated with lower equity bid-ask spreads, our proxy for information asymmetry, but only when the tax disclosure contains detailed quantitative information. Our findings contribute to the understanding of sustainability reporting practices by exploring a specific and economically important disclosure for which external, audited benchmarks are commonly used and readily available. 

Keywords: Tax transparency, tax aggressiveness, sustainability reporting, voluntary disclosure, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: H25, M14, F23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Jillian R. and Demers, Elizabeth and Klassen, Kenneth, Tax Transparency in Corporate Sustainability Reporting (September 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4284813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4284813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
E Alden
The world is closer than ever to making corporations pay up
Foreign Policy Posted: 2021-04-27
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax boycotts , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
899
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,547
RANK
60,757
9 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies