Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the Closure of the Double Irish Arrangement on the Location of U.S. Multinational Companies’ Profits

51 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022 Last revised: 28 Apr 2025

Navodhya Samarakoon

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

In 2015, the Irish government announced the closure of the Double Irish; one of the largest tax loopholes used by U.S. multinational companies, giving existing users until 2020 to comply. Using U.S. administrative corporate tax data, I provide novel estimates on profit shifted back to the United States after closure of the Double Irish. I estimate that firms that used the Double Irish redirected $59 billion in royalty payments to the United States in 2020, the first year of full closure. To disentangle the effect of loophole closure from other major international tax reforms, I propensity score match to a comparable control group. Using this comparable control group, a difference-in-differences analysis suggests the average Double Irish user reports $609 million more in royalty payments after full closure. I use a log specification to demonstrate royalty payments shifted, although large, are driven by outliers. Multinational companies in my treated group funneled an estimated $1.2 to $1.4 trillion in profits to low-tax jurisdictions via the Double Irish from 1998 to 2018. The royalty payments redirected to the United States comprise 31 to 38 percent of profit within the Double Irish arrangement in 2018, meaning many Double Irish users continue to hold large amounts of profit abroad. Lastly, my estimates on the size of the arrangement suggest the current literature may underestimate the U.S. tax base shifted abroad.

Keywords: international taxation, profit-shifting, corporate taxation, multinational enterprise

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26, H32

Suggested Citation:

Samarakoon, Navodhya, The Effect of the Closure of the Double Irish Arrangement on the Location of U.S. Multinational Companies’ Profits (July 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4285001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4285001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Altshuler , L Boller , J C S Serrato
Tax planning and multinational behavior Posted: 2024
R Altshuler , H Grubert
The three parties in the race to the bottom: host governments, home governments and multinational companies
Florida Tax Review , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
R Altshuler , H Grubert , T S Newlon
International taxation and multinational activity , p. 9 - 38 Posted: 2000
J Amoah , E A Stuart , S E Cosgrove , A D Harris , J H Han , E Lautenbach , P D Tamma
Comparing propensity score methods versus traditional regression analysis for the evaluation of observational data , volume 71 , p. 497 - 505 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Arjan Lejour , Maarten van ’t Riet
Tax avoidance by redirecting royalty flows: estimating the global revenue loss
International Tax and Public Finance Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
985
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,163
RANK
53,512
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies