Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Tax Accounting for Financial Reporting Purposes - International Evidence from the United Kingdom

The quality of tax accounting for financial reporting purposes - International evidence from the United Kingdom. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming)

Posted: 24 Apr 2023 Last revised: 31 May 2024

Qian Song

Loughborough University

Kevin Holland

Cardiff Business School

Date Written: November 25, 2022

Abstract

Abstract: The quality of tax accounting can be defined as the relationship between the annual tax expense reported in firms’ financial statements and future tax cashflows. As corporate income taxes have a material proportion of earnings, assessing the tax accounting quality can help financial statement users in evaluating future commitment to internal funds. While there is an emerging US-based literature on tax accounting quality, to the authors’ knowledge this is the first study to examine tax accounting quality in a domestic standard setting outside of the US and the first under a regime governed by International Financial Reporting Standards.

Results of this study indicate that tax accounting quality is significantly lower for firms that engage in higher levels of tax management or have stronger earnings management pressure. While corporate governance mechanisms do not moderate the relationship between tax management and tax accounting quality, there is some evidence of a moderating effect in the relationship between earnings management pressure and tax accounting quality. In addition, we observe variations in tax accounting quality associated with a change in tax-related financial reporting standards.

Keywords: Tax Accounting Quality; Corporate Tax Management; Earnings Management; Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Song, Qian and Holland, Kevin, The Quality of Tax Accounting for Financial Reporting Purposes - International Evidence from the United Kingdom (November 25, 2022). The quality of tax accounting for financial reporting purposes - International evidence from the United Kingdom. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4286133
 Not Available for Download
85 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Audit Analytics
Who Audits Public Companies -United Kingdom Posted: 2021-10-22
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
Congyue Xu , Xianwei Liu , Meini Han
Does Integrity Culture Reduce Tax Avoidance? Evidence from China
JIAAT-D-24-00202 · 24 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies