Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Embracing Tax Avoidance

34 U. .Fla. J. L. & Pub. Pol'y _ (2024)

47 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022 Last revised: 1 May 2024

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: November 27, 2022

Abstract

Tax avoidance attracts a great deal of attention from both academics and policymakers. To combat the phenomenon, Congress has enacted numerous statutory provisions that either deny beneficial treatment when one of the taxpayer’s principal purposes was tax avoidance or attempt to dissuade taxpayers from engaging in tax avoidance by making it more difficult, more inconvenient, or riskier to do so. Courts have developed a series of overlapping doctrines to police and limit tax avoidance. The regulations expound on both the judicial and statutory themes, creating an elaborate network of rules that clarify in often excruciating detail when taxpayers are viewed as having engaged in tax avoidance and that attempt to deny such taxpayers the benefits they seek.

This article argues that the traditional response to tax avoidance has prevented us from appreciating the gifts that it has to offer. Rather than devoting our limited legislative, administrative, judicial, and academic resources to waging what is likely an unwinnable war, we should instead embrace tax avoidance for the invaluable insight it affords into the innermost workings of the tax system.

A careful and dispassionate analysis of tax planning maneuvers can provide us with difficult-to-obtain information that is crucial for fundamental and deep-rooted reform. This reform is not the introduction of more effective anti-avoidance measures: it would make little sense to view tax avoidance as a gift if the only insight it offers is how to prevent tax avoidance. The incongruities in the tax system that permit tax avoidance are problematic in their own right. They are always horizontally inequitable. They are often vertically inequitable. They are usually distortionary. By reverse engineering tax avoidance schemes we can uncover these fissures. True, some fissures are so deep that even with the guiding light of tax planning maneuver uncovering them can present a challenge. However, the deeper the fissures are buried, the more difficult it is to discover them by any other means and the more far-reaching their detrimental effects are likely to be as their fault lines radiate out to the surface. Consequently, the deeper the fissures are located the more indispensable the insight offered by tax avoidance. In other cases, we may be aware of the fissure, but not fully aware of all its consequences. Here, too, procuring the information provided by tax avoidance is an invaluable first step to remedying the incongruity.

If the tax community’s collective response to tax avoidance were reasoned self-reflection rather than visceral condemnation, the value that it could extract from tax avoidance would be immeasurable. Current practice is to leave the underlying fissures intact and to focus attention on preventing taxpayers from exploiting the opportunities that those fissures present. Such an approach is not only likely to prove ineffective, but it risks squandering the gift that tax avoidance provides: a roadmap to a more equitable, efficient, and coherent tax system.

Keywords: tax, tax avoidance, tax abuse

JEL Classification: H26, K34,

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, Embracing Tax Avoidance (November 27, 2022). 34 U. .Fla. J. L. & Pub. Pol'y _ (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4287175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4287175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Leandra Lederman, W(h)ither Economic Substance?, 95 IOWA L. REV Posted: 2010
S Michael , Knoll
Compaq Redux: Implicit Taxes and the Question of Pre-Tax Profit, 26 VA
TAX. REV , volume 821 Posted: 2007
Victor Fleischer
Taxing Blackstone, 61 TAX L. REV , volume 89 Posted: 2008
Scott A Schumacher , Macniven
Westmoreland and Tax Advice: Using "Purposive Textualism" to Deal with Tax Shelters and Promote Legitimate Tax Advice, 92 MARQ
L. REV Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
840
RANK
379,264
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies