Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Benefits from Government Tax-Subsidies for Corporate Charitable Food Donations?

27 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Armagan Ozbilge

Dalhousie University - Faculty of Management

Saif Benjaafar

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Elkafi Hassini

McMaster University

Mahmut Parlar

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: February 04, 2025

Abstract

Leveraging government tax incentives to prompt corporate social responsibility (CSR) has gained considerable popularity over the last decade. However, the consequences of such incentives on retailers and society may be subtle. This paper sheds light on the effectiveness of government tax deductions for charitable donations in enhancing society's welfare. We incorporate the U.S. government tax deduction policy for food donations into the retailer's after-tax profit function and analyze the impact of the tax subsidy parameters on the retailer's optimal decisions, corporate charitable giving, and total welfare. The market demand is assumed to be both price- and quality-dependent, and the length of the selling season is characterized by the shelf-life of the goods. The retailer plans not only for the purchase of the goods but also for donating them as a part of her CSR activity. Our study reveals that both donations and (expected) total welfare have a non-monotone relationship with quality and the enhanced tax deduction. For instance, when retailer's inventory is categorized as medium or high quality, increasing tax-subsidy may diminish charitable donations, underscoring the importance of maintaining the delicate balance in the retail market.

Keywords: Charitable giving, food donations, tax-subsidies, consumer surplus, social welfare

Suggested Citation:

Ozbilge, Armagan and Benjaafar, Saif and Hassini, Elkafi and Parlar, Mahmut, Who Benefits from Government Tax-Subsidies for Corporate Charitable Food Donations? (February 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4288815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4288815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Akkaş , V Gaur
Om forum-reducing food waste: An operations management research agenda
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 1261 - 1275 Posted: 2022
A Akkaş , D Honhon
Shipment policies for products with fixed shelf lives: Impact on profits and waste
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 1611 - 1629 Posted: 2022
A Akkaş , N Sahoo
Reducing product expiration by aligning salesforce incentives: A data-driven approach , volume 29 , p. 1992 - 2009 Posted: 2020
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Supply chain consequences of subsidies for corporate social responsibility , volume 24 , p. 1346 - 1357 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
RANK
359,301
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies