Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Late Payment Penalties on the Payment Timing of Owed Taxes

11 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Peer Skov

Auckland University of Technology

Abstract

This paper studies the effectiveness of a policy designed to influence the timing decision for payments of owed taxes. Owed taxes arise when the sum of the foregoing tax year’s preliminary tax payments falls short of the total tax liability. In 2009 the Danish tax authority (SKAT) introduced a small interest penalty amounting to a daily price of approximately DKK0.5 (US$0.1) for the median amount of owed taxes. Using administrative tax data, I show that the penalty introduction led to a 50-day advancement of payments.

Keywords: tax compliance, tax enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Skov, Peer, The Effect of Late Payment Penalties on the Payment Timing of Owed Taxes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4294842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4294842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
497
RANK
759,919
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies