Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Capping the SALT Deduction on Municipal Bond Pricing

54 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2022

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Alan Reinstein

Wayne State University

Matthew Wynter

State University of New York, SUNY at Stony Brook University, College of Business

Tong Yao

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: December 6, 2022

Abstract

We examine the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act’s (TCJA, also known as the “Trump tax cuts”) cap on the state and local tax (SALT) deduction on the relationship between municipal bond spreads and real estate tax revenues by examining California counties’ financial and municipal bond data from 2016 to 2019. Consistent with the SALT deduction limitation negatively affecting counties’ expected future ability to raise more real estate tax revenues, we find that after the passage of TCJA, this relationship weakens. We further find that this impact is more pronounced for counties where taxpayers are less likely to support future tax increases and for counties that are less financially constrained and thus are less reliant on future real estate tax increases for their financing. Using California’s voting data, we find that its voters are less likely to support tax ballot proposals in counties with higher extant real estate tax revenues in the post-TCJA period. Overall, our evidence indicates that, in the post-TCJA period, real estate tax revenue becomes a less important determinant of municipal bond spreads—likely because of voters’ unwillingness to continue supporting future real estate tax increases due to voters’ expected inability to derive tax deduction benefits from additional local tax payments.

Keywords: municipal bonds, Trump tax cuts, SALT deduction, real estate taxes

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pevzner, Mikhail and Reinstein, Alan and Wynter, Matthew and Yao, Tong, The Impact of Capping the SALT Deduction on Municipal Bond Pricing (December 6, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4295035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
RANK
454,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies