Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Factors of Trust in Lebanese E-Taxation Website

23 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Hoda Alameddine

Beirut Arab University

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

The Lebanese Government has invested billions of money in information system development to provide better service to its citizens. Yet the e-taxation platform is at an unpredictable stage, even though the system has existed for more than ten years. The trust in the Lebanese e-taxation website was investigated via the lens of trust factors in this study. Hence the citizens’ opinions and trust are essential to enhance the trust in e-taxation websites and improve their engagement in the e-taxation services. This study followed the deductive approach; an exploratory study was conducted quantitatively. The quantitative data was collected with a crossectional and self-administrated survey. Then, a statistical analysis through spss\25 was made to tabulate and analyze the data to create the adopted model.

After studying the relationship between trust factors and trust in e-taxation websites, we hope that the implication of this study will help public organizations to gain more confidence from taxpayers and encourage Lebanese citizens to do more interactive with the e-taxation website.

Keywords: E-taxation, trust in the technology, trust in the government

JEL Classification: M,O

Suggested Citation:

Alameddine, Hoda, The Factors of Trust in Lebanese E-Taxation Website (December 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4295754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4295754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
RANK
741,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies