Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 2003 U.S. Dividend Tax Cut, Bank Credit Supply, and the Real Economy

49 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Keyuan Zhang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Date Written: July 28, 2021

Abstract

We show that after the U.S. 2003 dividend tax cut, C-corporation banks whose investors are subject to the dividend tax had a higher loan growth rate than S-subchapter banks. Such an enhanced credit supply due to the tax cut impacted the real economy. Small businesses had more access to C-bank debt financing, boosting entrepreneurship. More households obtained mortgage approvals from C-banks. Low-income and certain minority applicants benefited more. C-banks also issued more personal loans to households, expanding the consumption sector. Overall, our research adds to the literature on the consequences of the tax cut by showing an important yet unvisited bank credit supply channel.

Keywords: Dividend tax; credit supply; real economy; policy evaluation

Suggested Citation:

Li, Oliver Zhen and Lin, Yupeng and Zhang, Keyuan, The 2003 U.S. Dividend Tax Cut, Bank Credit Supply, and the Real Economy (July 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
G Amromin , P Harrison , S Sharpe
How did the 2003 dividend tax cut affect stock prices?
Financial Management , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 625 - 646 Posted: 2008
K Andries , J Gallemore , M Jacob
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
707
RANK
682,707
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies