Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Emission Tax VS Carbon Emission Market, Which One Is Better

Posted: 20 Dec 2022

Elena Zavyalova

Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO-University)

Li Jiacheng

Independent

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

This article mainly adopts modeling analysis, literature analysis and case study methods to compare the similarities and differences between carbon tax mechanism and carbon emission mechanism to discuss their advantages and limitations, and concludes that carbon market mechanism has obvious advantages such as low cost, flexibility, cross-industry and cross-territory compared with carbon tax mechanism, while carbon tax mechanism has obvious problems such as inefficiency and high cost. Carbon market mechanism, as a mainstream means of reducing emissions, has been piloted or implemented in some major carbon emitting countries. Based on the characteristics of carbon market and carbon tax, as well as their respective advantages and disadvantages, it is more reliable to adopt both carbon market policy and carbon tax policy. Specifically, the carbon market should be the main mechanism to stimulate more channels to actively reduce carbon emissions, while the carbon tax policy can punish those enterprises that are late in meeting the emission standards.

Keywords: carbon tax, carbon emission mechanism, carbon market

JEL Classification: H23, H39, G23, G28, E63, D02

Suggested Citation:

Zavyalova, Elena and Jiacheng, Li, Carbon Emission Tax VS Carbon Emission Market, Which One Is Better (December 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4296054
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies