Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Tax Misperception

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 108

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-12

82 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 12 May 2025

Vanessa Heinemann-Heile

Paderborn University

Hans-Peter Huber

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Ralf Maiterth

Humboldt University of Berlin

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

Tax considerations can play a critical role in business decisions. However, it is not the actual tax burden but decision-makers’ perception of it that shapes how taxes affect managerial reasoning. This study investigates how owners and managers of small and medium-sized firms (SMEs) perceive their firm’s average (ATR) and marginal tax rate (MTR), the extent to which these perceptions deviate from actual rates, and how such tax misperceptions are incorporated into business decisions. Using a unique dataset of survey responses on perceived tax rates, we quantify the magnitude of tax misperception and identify its key drivers. Our results reveal that a substantial proportion of SME decision-makers significantly misperceive their tax burden: over 57% (53%) misestimate their ATR (MTR). Sole proprietors and decision-makers in partnerships tend to overestimate their ATRs, while corporate decision-makers typically overestimate tax rates on retained profits but underestimate both ATRs and MTRs on distributed profits. Irrespective of the firm’s legal form, we find that tax misperception systematically decreases with firm size and increases with the complexity of the tax system, limited tax literacy, and dissatisfaction with the tax system. Importantly, this misperception is not benign. It is likely to distort investment decisions and shape attitudes to tax reforms, particularly under progressive tax schedules. Our findings underscore the need for policymakers and researchers to account for firms’ misperception of tax regulation and tax burden when designing and evaluating policies and develop tools to mitigate it to improve the effectiveness of tax reforms and enhance trust in government.

Keywords: Tax Misperception, Business Taxation, Tax Policy, Tax Literacy, Business Decisions, Tax Rates

JEL Classification: H25, H32, D91, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heinemann-Heile, Vanessa and Huber, Hans-Peter and Maiterth, Ralf and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Firms' Tax Misperception (December 12, 2022). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 108, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2022-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4300919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
H J Amberger , E Eberhartinger , M Kasper
Tax-rate biases in tax decisions: Experimental evidence
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 2023
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
D A L Auld
Public sector awareness and preferences in Ontario
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 172 - 183 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,876
RANK
216,737
2 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies