Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Debt-Equity Distinction and Tribune Media

Tax Notes Federal, April 25, 2022, p. 593

9 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Kathrin Gardhouse

Blue J Legal

Date Written: April 25, 2022

Abstract

To illustrate the insights possible with machine learning, we use the Blue J debt-equity predictor to analyze part of the decision recently rendered in Tribune Media. Tax Court Judge Ronald L. Buch discussed and assessed the 13 Dixie Dairies factors in Tribune Media, analyzing whether the obligation ought to be properly characterized as debt or equity. Tribune Media was not a particularly close call, as the court (and Blue J’s model, with 86 percent certainty) concluded that the obligation in question was an advance on account of equity, with seven factors pointing in the direction of equity, three factors weighing toward debt, and three neutral factors. But as any tax lawyer with experience in analyzing the debt-equity distinction will remind us, an accurate assessment on the merits is not a simple matter of counting factors on each side of the ledger. Indeed, analysis leveraging the Blue J debt-equity model shows that a different position on only two of the Dixie Dairies factors (one of which was characterized by the court in Tribune Media as neutral) would have flipped the outcome of the debt-equity characterization (with 77 percent confidence). This would not have been a long shot; on these two factors, the taxpayer had a prima facie reasonable prospect of success. However, the text of the decision does not disclose that these two factors could have made such a difference. In fact, as we will explore, there are curious differences between the decision’s determination of the factors’ significance and the importance suggested by Blue J’s model based on the accumulated wisdom from the decisions of judges in past debt-equity cases. We attribute this gap, at least in part, to the rhetorical challenge of producing compelling reasons in close cases.

Keywords: debt, equity, tax

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Gardhouse, Kathrin, The Debt-Equity Distinction and Tribune Media (April 25, 2022). Tax Notes Federal, April 25, 2022, p. 593, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
466
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies