Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion on Lawful Income: Is it a Form of Money Laundering?

Forthcoming in the Journal of Financial Crime

20 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022

Deen Kemsley

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Sean Kemsley

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Frank T. Morgan

Independent

Date Written: December 13, 2022

Abstract

PURPOSE: Determine whether income tax evasion also constitutes money laundering if Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Recommendations are strictly applied, including cases where an offender evades tax on lawful income.

APPROACH: Apply FATF conditions for money laundering to the tax evasion facts in United States v. Walter Anderson. In this case, the United States alleges that Anderson attempted to evade $200 million of taxes on lawful income.

FINDINGS: Anderson’s tax evasion actions met all the FATF’s conditions for money laundering. FATF Recommendations imply that tax evasion, even on lawful income, is a form of money laundering. Tax evasion produces criminal tax savings and simultaneously launders those criminal proceeds.

ORIGINALITY: This is the first tax case analysis to indicate that tax evasion completely incorporates money laundering within the FATF framework.

PRACTICAL POLICY IMPLICATION: The FATF effectively classified all tax evasion as money laundering when it designated tax evasion among predicate offenses thereto. The FATF stopped short of explicitly stating this result. The FATF should seriously consider taking the next step: formally recognize tax evasion as one form of money laundering, and thus codify a single crime that covers both offenses. A single-crime approach may be unfamiliar to prosecutors, but it could enable a more effective multi-agency approach to fighting financial crime. It could simplify prosecution, eliminate overlapping statutes, and reduce concerns over double jeopardy.

Keywords: Taxation, tax evasion, money laundering

JEL Classification: H24, H26, H30, K42

Suggested Citation:

Kemsley, Deen and Kemsley, Sean and Morgan, Frank T., Tax Evasion on Lawful Income: Is it a Form of Money Laundering? (December 13, 2022). Forthcoming in the Journal of Financial Crime, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
242,798
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies