Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Policy Matter for Donating Behavior? Evidence from the Korean Tax Reform

23 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2022

Woo-Hyung Hong

Hansung University

Sung Hoon Kang

Hanyang University

Abstract

The 2014 tax reform in Korea transformed the tax deduction system into a tax credit system for charitable giving. As a result, tax benefits for high-income donors decreased while those for low-income donors increased. In this study, using the unbalanced panel data of the National Survey of Taxes and Benefits, we examined how the tax reform in Korea affected donor behavior at the intensive and extensive margins and how the effects of the change in tax incentive of giving differ depending on income level. Our empirical results show that responsiveness differs by income level. High-income donors responded statistically to the tax incentive change, while low-income donors did not. We also find that frequent donors continue to donate regardless of the tax incentive, but high-income donors among them respond to tax incentives by adjusting their donation amount. The 2014 tax reform aimed to increase the net donation amount while improving equity. However, our findings indicate that the 2014 tax reform was ineffective in increasing the net amount of charitable giving, contrary to the government's intent.

Keywords: charitable giving, tax incentive, income tax reform, Korea

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Woo-Hyung and Kang, Sung Hoon, Does Tax Policy Matter for Donating Behavior? Evidence from the Korean Tax Reform. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4307949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4307949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
RANK
687,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies