Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizontal Monitoring: Some Procedural Tax Law Issues and Their Broader Meaning

'Horizontal Monitoring: some procedural tax law issues and their broader meaning’, in R. Hein & R. Russo (eds.), Tax Assurance, Deventer: Kluwer 2022 2nd ed, p. 215-252

Tilburg Law School Research Paper

37 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023

Hans Gribnau

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

Recently, the Netherlands Tax and Customs Administration (NTCA) introduced a redesign of its ‘Horizontal Monitoring’ model. This co-operative compliance approach is based on trust, transparency and mutual understanding between NTCA and (corporate) taxpayers. It is a way of enhancing voluntary compliance, which is to say payment of the right amount of tax at the right time.

This informal approach is about co-operation and fait treatment rather than about competencies (powers), obligations and rights, without neglecting the legal framework (including the principles of proper administrative behaviour) in force. In a co-operative relationship there is a willingness to go beyond compliance with regard to procedural law requirements (disclosure, etcetera).

Horizontal Monitoring must be seen as supplementary to traditional, vertical supervision. This is the traditional command-and-control method of regulation, whereby the authorities use unilateral enforcement powers such as the power to invoke disclosure requirements, audits and sanctions (like (administrative) penalties and reversal of the burden of the proof).

This updated chapter is structured as follows. Firstly, the basic characteristics of Horizontal Monitoring are briefly summarized with a view to procedural tax aspects. Then, an overview is presented of the normal legal framework which determines NTCA’s enforcement powers and taxpayers’ obligations. Thirdly, some aspects of the statutes and legal principles in force are elaborated upon because, at first sight, the Horizontal Monitoring approach might seem to be at variance with these aspects of the legal framework. This is followed by some conclusions.

Note: “Reprinted from R. Hein & R. Russo (eds.), Tax Assurance, July 2022, p. 215-252, with permission of Kluwer Law International.”

Keywords: Tax Assurance, Co-Operative Compliance, Horizontal Monitoring, Voluntary Compliance, Legitimacy, Trust, Transparency, Risk Management Vertical Supervision, Procedural Tax Law, Principles Of Proper Administrative Behaviour, Compliance Agreement, Covenant

JEL Classification: K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Gribnau, Hans, Horizontal Monitoring: Some Procedural Tax Law Issues and Their Broader Meaning (January 21, 2022). 'Horizontal Monitoring: some procedural tax law issues and their broader meaning’, in R. Hein & R. Russo (eds.), Tax Assurance, Deventer: Kluwer 2022 2nd ed, p. 215-252, Tilburg Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4310114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
277,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies