Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Losses and W AG: The Beginning of the End of the 'Final Loss Exception'?

Cahiers de fiscalité luxembourgeoise et européenne 1/2023, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023 Last revised: 13 Jan 2023

Georg Kofler

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: December 10, 2022

Abstract

Cross-border loss utilization has been a contentious issue since the Court’s landmark decisions in Marks & Spencer and Lidl Belgium, which assumed comparability between domestic and cross-border situations and embraced the “final loss exception” for foreign subsidiaries and exempt permanent establishments. Following some uncertainty after Timac Agro and Bevola, in its recent judgment in W AG the Court clearly turned its back on Lidl Belgium and found that domestic and treaty-exempt branches are not comparable in the first place. This article critically examines the Court’s reasoning in W AG, its broader implications, and its relation to other lines of the Court’s jurisprudence in the tax area.

Suggested Citation:

Kofler, Georg, Cross-Border Losses and W AG: The Beginning of the End of the 'Final Loss Exception'? (December 10, 2022). Cahiers de fiscalité luxembourgeoise et européenne 1/2023, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4312568 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4312568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,626
RANK
225,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies