Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lower-Income Countries’ Ongoing Quest for International Tax Justice: A Case Study of the OECD’s Tax Allocation Proposal

(2022) 66:3 Canadian Business Law Journal 291

29 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2023 Last revised: 5 Jan 2023

Okanga Ogbu Okanga

Independent

Kim Brooks

Dalhousie University - Schulich School of Law

Date Written: December 7, 2022

Abstract

The viability of our international tax system hinges on two things: (1) safeguarding the effective flow of international activities and (2) ensuring that countries can adequately collect tax on the income derived from those activities. Each of these fundamentals relies on a defensible/fair allocation of taxing rights between countries with competing tax jurisdiction (inter-nation equity).

The recent Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)-led multilateral effort to transform international tax rules to ensure that countries can adequately tax multinational enterprises (MNEs) operating in the global digital economy (OECD proposal) has reignited inter-nation equity conversations. Although important to all countries, inter-nation equity is a special consideration for lower-income countries because of: (1) pre-existing perceptions that the subsisting regime is skewed against them; (2) their greater reliance on corporate taxation, including of MNEs, and (3) their limited capacity to give up taxing rights.

This article examines the OECD proposal from an inter-nation equity perspective. We contend that the deal does not adequately address the inter-nation equity concerns of lower-income countries. We, however, conclude that the path to a stable and fair outcome lies in adjusting aspects of the deal rather than invoking alternatives – e.g., withholding taxes on gross revenue – that may further distort international business. While this article focuses on the consequences of the OECD proposal for lower-income countries, higher-income countries (like Canada) are parties to the arrangements. So, Canada has a stake in the conversations and could experience negative distortions to international activities if inter-nation equity concerns are not adequately addressed.

Keywords: Tax, OECD, International Tax Justice

Suggested Citation:

Okanga, Okanga Ogbu and Brooks, Kimberley, Lower-Income Countries’ Ongoing Quest for International Tax Justice: A Case Study of the OECD’s Tax Allocation Proposal (December 7, 2022). (2022) 66:3 Canadian Business Law Journal 291, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4314340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4314340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
539
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies