Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Tomorrow: The Impact of the Global Minimum Tax on Transfer Pricing and Harmful Tax Competition

78 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023

Stefano Pesiri

Independent

Date Written: September 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper is devoted to an analysis of the recently promoted OECD/G20 reform and its potential effects on international taxation. Over the years, the efforts that the OECD and the European Commission had directed towards the development of an efficient international taxation system have been thwarted by the innovative techniques of economic operators. In particular, multinational enterprise groups (MNEs) became the beating heart of the problems plaguing international taxation. They were responsible for the use of increasingly articulated corporate structures that, by locating companies in low-tax territories, allowed groups to minimise the tax burden on them; equally elaborate were the transfer pricing techniques used: these are operations aimed at manipulating the prices of intra-group transactions, maximising or minimising costs as needed, so as to be able to shift profits from one jurisdiction to another. The conduct of the MNEs has been accompanied by the parallel behaviour of States, engaged in unbridled tax competition with each other through the offer of minimum tax rates, exemptions and generous tax incentives, with the specific intent of inducing as many investors as possible to locate in their territories, so as to broaden the tax base with which to finance public spending and tax revenues. The basis for making all this possible has been the spread of globalisation and the advent of digitalisation: two phenomena that have enabled companies to supply their goods/services from any where in the world, irrespective of any concept linked to the physical presence of the company in the territory of the state. In the light of all these phenomena, the international tax system, which was instead strongly anchored to the concept of physical presence (with the permanent establishment being the cornerstone of the OECD Model Convention), had entered a deep crisis. To emerge from it, a global reform was urgently needed. After years of negotiations, which began with the BEPS project, the current agreement was reached in October 2021, containing a reform proposal that, with the support of as many as 137 States, is set to revolutionise the world of international taxation, imposing a floor on tax competition and neutralising much of the profit shifting practices. This will be done through a project with two Pillars, which will have the task of responding to needs felt on several sides: on the one hand, Pillar One, with the introduction of the Nexus, will make it possible to identify the so-called “significant digital presence” and a fairer redistribution of wealth to be taxed in the various states; on the other hand, Pillar Two, through two interconnected rules, the IIR and the UTPR (to which will be added a third rule to be included in bilateral treaties, the STTR), will allow a floor to be imposed on tax competition and will ensure that companies falling under the scope of the new legislation will be required to pay a “fair share of taxes”, regardless of where they are located. What will emerge from this reform will therefore be a new system, fairer and more equitable, and above all capable of bringing international taxation (finally) into the 21st century.

Keywords: OECD, Pillar One, Pillar Two, Tax, Corporate Tax, Income Inclusion Rule, Reform, Global minimum tax, transfer pricing, tax competition, profit shifting, multinationals, European Union, Two Pillars, G20

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Pesiri, Stefano, The Taxation of Tomorrow: The Impact of the Global Minimum Tax on Transfer Pricing and Harmful Tax Competition (September 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4316894
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,714
RANK
45,142
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies