Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Taxation and Firm Performance with Heterogeneous Payout Responses

CESifo Working Paper No. 10185

67 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2023

Katarzyna Anna Bilicka

Utah State University

Irem Güçeri

University of Oxford

Evangelos Koumanakos

Hellenic Open University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

We analyze the short and long-run performance of ﬁrms that were diﬀerentially aﬀected by a new tax on dividends in the lead-up to the Global Financial Crisis. We use exogenous policy variation for ﬁrms with diﬀerent legal statuses and ﬁnancial year-end dates to causally identify the policy impact. Consistent with intertemporal tax arbitrage, immediately-aﬀected ﬁrms signiﬁcantly reduce payouts. At a time of severe liquidity shortage, the average ﬁrm uses the undistributed cash to pay back debt. In the long run, the allocation of undistributed cash to investment, retained earnings, and debt repayment predicts growth and the likelihood of bankruptcy.

Keywords: dividend tax, firm survival, investment, intertemporal tax arbitrage

JEL Classification: H320, H250, G320, G110

Suggested Citation:

Bilicka, Katarzyna Anna and Güçeri, Irem and Koumanakos, Evangelos, Dividend Taxation and Firm Performance with Heterogeneous Payout Responses (2022). CESifo Working Paper No. 10185, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4319030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
703,106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies