Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Financial Accounting Information in the OECD BEPS 2.0 Project: A Discussion of the Rules and Concerns

Forthcoming, National Tax Journal

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6888-23

53 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2023 Last revised: 17 May 2023

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Michelle L. Nessa

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Date Written: October 25, 2022

Abstract

This paper discusses the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Two- Pillar proposal for changing the global, international corporate tax regime. We focus on the use of financial accounting income as part of these tax rules. We provide a relatively high-level explanation of the rules, and we discuss some inconsistencies and complexities. We also discuss potential problems and unintended consequences for companies, financial statement users, tax authorities, financial statement auditors, and financial accounting standard setters as a result of using financial accounting income in the tax base.

Keywords: International taxation, financial accounting, Pillar 2, Pillar 1

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hanlon, Michelle and Nessa, Michelle L., The Use of Financial Accounting Information in the OECD BEPS 2.0 Project: A Discussion of the Rules and Concerns (October 25, 2022). Forthcoming, National Tax Journal, MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 6888-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4319352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
RANK
111,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies