Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Required Minimum Distributions on Intergenerational Transfers

40 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2023 Last revised: 3 May 2023

Jonathan M. Leganza

Clemson University

Date Written: January 10, 2023

Abstract

How do households use retirement savings accounts in retirement? The answer to this question is important for tax policy pertaining to retirement savings. I shed light on this question by studying how households respond to Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) regulations, which mandate withdrawals from retirement accounts upon reaching a specified age. Using data from the Health and Retirement Study and a regression discontinuity design, I estimate the causal effects of aging into RMD regulations. First, I establish the direct effects of RMDs in my setting and show a sharp increase in withdrawals from Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs). Next, I provide new evidence on the indirect effects of RMDs and show a concurrent, discontinuous increase in inter vivos transfers. The results indicate that some households ultimately use IRAs to facilitate intergenerational gifts, holding wealth in the tax-advantaged accounts until required to take distributions and then passing resources to children.

Keywords: Retirement Policy, Tax Policy, Intergenerational Transfers

JEL Classification: H24, D14, D64, J26, J14

Suggested Citation:

Leganza, Jonathan M., The Effect of Required Minimum Distributions on Intergenerational Transfers (January 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4321806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
651
RANK
564,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Macroeconomics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies