Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preventing Tax Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Occasioned by Offshore Indirect Transfer of Assets: Perspectives from Africa

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 4 ; p. 689-723

Posted: 10 Jan 2023

Annet Oguttu

University of Pretoria

Date Written: August 8, 2022

Abstract

One of the tax base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) schemes that has been a major concern in developing countries over the last few years is the “offshore indirect transfer” of business assets to low-tax jurisdictions that facilitate tax planning so as to avoid capital gains tax in the countries were the asset is located. Often these schemes involve assets that are based in developing countries. Besides the BEPS challenges posed, offshore indirect transfers can also result in double non-taxation and double taxation in the country where the asset is located and the residence country of the seller and/or the buyer of the asset. This article discusses these tax challenges from the African perspective by discussing various cases and reports of offshore indirect transfers in different African countries. The article provides recommendations regarding the domestic tax provisions that African countries should have in place in order to effectively protect their tax bases, as well as measures to effectively detect these schemes and collect the tax due. The article also discusses the double tax treaty provisions that countries ought to have in place to effectively protect against the erosion of their tax bases. The recommendations in this article will be useful for tax policy makers, tax treaty negotiators and tax administrations in developing countries, particularly those in Africa, in their endeavours to protect their tax bases from the scourge of offshore indirect transfers of assets located in their jurisdictions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: BEPS, indirect transfer (offshore), developing countries, tax planning, tax authorities, tax policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Oguttu, Annet, Preventing Tax Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Occasioned by Offshore Indirect Transfer of Assets: Perspectives from Africa (August 8, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 4 ; p. 689-723, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4321566
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies