Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Check Your Attitude: An Examination of Companies' Adversarial Disclosures about Tax Enforcement

59 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2023 Last revised: 30 Apr 2025

Hannah W. Judd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Connie D. Weaver

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

This study examines companies’ voluntary disclosures of an adversarial stance toward tax enforcement in income tax footnotes, where companies express disagreement with tax authorities or a willingness to litigate unresolved audit issues. We find that larger companies, industry leaders, and companies in industries with high litigation risk are more likely to make adversarial disclosures toward tax enforcement, and companies’ tax planning activities do not solely determine such disclosures. We examine the implications of adversarial disclosures on future tax audit outcomes and find that future settlement outcomes are more unfavorable for companies with such disclosures relative to those without. Finally, our supplemental analysis suggests negative capital market consequences and increased IRS scrutiny following adversarial disclosures. Our study documents the determinants and implications of a unique aspect of companies’ tax controversy management and sheds light on the interactions between taxpayers and the tax authority during the tax enforcement process.

Keywords: adversarial tax disclosure, tax enforcement, uncertain tax positions, tax footnotes

JEL Classification: H25, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Judd, Hannah W. and McGuire, Sean T. and Weaver, Connie D. and Xia, Junwei, Check Your Attitude: An Examination of Companies' Adversarial Disclosures about Tax Enforcement (January 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
D M Armstrong
Measuring tax enforcement with generative AI Posted: 2023
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
P J Beck , P Lisowsky
Tax uncertainty and Voluntary real-time tax audits
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 867 - 901 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
778
RANK
449,075
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies