Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity Carrots and Sticks

61 American Business Law Journal 5 (2024)

25 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2023 Last revised: 24 May 2024

Janine S. Hiller

Virginia Tech

Kathryn Kisska-Schulze

Clemson University College of Business

Scott Shackelford

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Business Law; Indiana University Bloomington - The Vincent and Elinor Ostrom Workshop in Political Theory & Policy Analysis; Center for Applied Cybersecurity Research; Harvard Kennedy School Belfer Center for Science & International Affairs; Stanford Center for Internet and Society; Stanford Law School

Date Written: January 28, 2024

Abstract

In an unsustainable trend, each year is touted as the worst on record for data and system breaches. 2020's dubious top distinction was exceeded across numerous metrics in 2021, and 2022's numbers set another unwanted record. The growing epidemic of ransomware, data breaches, and cyber-enabled attacks pushes policymakers and business leaders to consider what can be done to reverse the cyberinsecurity spiral. Amidst the current cybersecurity landscape fraught with regulatory gaps, dependence on self-regulation, and resource constraints of small- and medium-sized businesses, policymakers should seize opportunities to reward reasonable cybersecurity postures and disincentivize underinvestment in cybersecurity best practices. Bold and coordinated actions are needed to dislodge the unsustainable trend of increasingly damaging cyberattacks, and to create a more holistically secure digital future. To move the needle toward a more robust cybersecurity ecosystem, this article proposes an incentive-based strategy that breaks the mandateversus-self-regulation dichotomy, leveraging a carrots and sticks tax approach to spur stronger cybersecurity postures across the ecosystem. Such proposal outlines a framework for a Federal Cybersecurity Investment Tax Credit, tailored and mapped to select entity types, combined with a cyberinsecurity tax, thus promoting the principle that businesses have basic cybersecurity responsibilities and fundamental duties to operate securely in a digital society. In addition, this article introduces supplementary tools as part of an enhanced cybersecurity tax policy toolkit. Given pressing national and global cyber risks, this article continues a long-standing conversation about the operative use of tax policy as part of a holistic approach to reaching a secure and sustainable digital future.

Keywords: cybersecurity, tax, policy, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Hiller, Janine S. and Kisska-Schulze, Kathryn and Shackelford, Scott J., Cybersecurity Carrots and Sticks (January 28, 2024). 61 American Business Law Journal 5 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4322819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4322819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
162 References
Governing the Internet of Everything, 72 HASTINGS L
J , volume 627 , p. 635 - 636 Posted: 2021
Kevin Bocek
Software Supply Chains and Enterprise IoT Will Be Big Attack Targets in 2022
FORBES , volume 10 Posted: 2022-01-18
Bob Kolasky
A Risk-Based Approach to National Cybersecurity, CYBERSECURITY & INFRASTRUCTURE SEC
AGENCY Posted: 2021-11-01
Understanding Systemic , Cyber Risk , F Econ , Lincoln Kaffenberger , Emanuel Kopp
explaining systemic risk and cyber security
Cyber Risk Scenarios, the Financial System, and Systemic Risk Assessment , p. 5 - 6 Posted: 2016-10
Load more
2 Citations
Anders Henten , Iwona Windekilde , Morten Falch
Cybersecurity institutions in the EU and the US
25 Pages · Posted: 18 Oct 2024 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 53
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Suresh Neethirajan
Safeguarding Digital Livestock Farming - A Comprehensive Cybersecurity Roadmap for Dairy and Poultry Industries
31 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 64
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,696
RANK
213,115
2 Citations
162 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies