Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Book-Tax Conformity on Reporting and Investment Behavior

36 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2023 Last revised: 16 Jan 2023

Alexandra Lilge

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Michelle Peters

Independent

Rebecca Reineke

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether higher book-tax conformity and its effects on firms’ investment and tax reporting decisions decrease misleading tax reporting and increase tax revenue. In contrast to previous studies, we incorporate an investment decision into a strategic tax-compliance model. In the model, a firm decides on an investment that affects the cash flows shown in its financial statement. The firm subsequently files a tax report that is either compliant or misleading. After observing both reports, the tax authority decides whether to audit the firm. As book-tax conformity links both reports, the financial statement provides information regarding the tax report’s accuracy for the tax audit. Our analysis identifies the mixed strategy equilibrium and shows that higher book-tax conformity induces more (less) misleading tax reporting if the firm’s investments are high (low). We also show that investments decrease in response to higher book-tax conformity. Moreover, we find that that higher book-tax conformity either increases or decreases tax revenue and after-tax profits.

Keywords: book-tax conformity, investment incentives, tax compliance, tax audit

JEL Classification: C72, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lilge, Alexandra and Peters, Michelle and Reineke, Rebecca, The Impact of Book-Tax Conformity on Reporting and Investment Behavior (January 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4323441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4323441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
592,728
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies