Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey of Preferences for Estate Distribution at Death

Yale Law & Economics Research Paper Forthcoming

Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2023 Last revised: 11 Sep 2025

Yair Listokin

Yale Law School

John Morley

Yale Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 10, 2025

Abstract

What do you want to do with your property when you die? This paper presents the results of a survey in which we asked this question to a nationally representative sample of 9,000 American adults. We gathered data on respondents’ families and then asked them how they would like to divide their property among those they leave behind. We find that people are more ambivalent about gifts to spouses and more generous to nonmarital partners than the law of intestacy generally assumes. People also give less to parents and more to siblings, extended relatives, and friends than expected and much more to stepchildren than expected. We find some significant differences by race, class, and gender, with women, African Americans and people of less income and education preferring to give less to their spouses. Our findings improve upon empirical studies of probated wills by providing an unbiased sample, by including data on demographic characteristics, and by observing the preferences of people in unconventional families. We suggest that although intestacy law is often said to implement majoritarian preferences, it may be more consistent with a mix of majoritarianism, paternalism, and administrative efficiency. 

Keywords: Wills, Trusts, Estates, Intestacy, Survey, Family Law, Property Law, Default Rules

JEL Classification: K11, K36

Suggested Citation:

Listokin, Yair and Morley, John D., A Survey of Preferences for Estate Distribution at Death (September 10, 2025). Yale Law & Economics Research Paper Forthcoming, Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4332171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4332171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
RANK
212,384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Yale Law School, Law, Economics & Public Policy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies