Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on the Global Minimum Tax: What Is a Critical Mass and How Large Is the Substance-Based Income Exclusion?

16 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Johanna Paraknewitz

University of Tübingen

Martin Simmler

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin)

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

This paper presents empirical evidence on the proposed Global Minimum Tax (GMT) of the OECD’s Pillar 2. First, it addresses how many, and which, countries or country groups can be seen as constituting a “critical mass” for its successful implementation; given such a critical mass, remaining jurisdictions worldwide will have an incentive to implement the GMT as well. Second, it assesses the generosity of the substance-based income exclusion (SBIE), which is informative on the revenue collected under the GMT.

Keywords: multinational firms, minimum tax, substance-based income exclusion

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Devereux, Michael P. and Paraknewitz, Johanna and Simmler, Martin, Empirical Evidence on the Global Minimum Tax: What Is a Critical Mass and How Large Is the Substance-Based Income Exclusion? (December 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4335063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4335063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
RANK
278,525
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies