Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Competition and Coordination with a Global Minimum Tax

Forthcoming, National Tax Journal

32 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: October 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the incentives for countries to implement and maintain the global minimum tax introduced by the G20/OECD’s Inclusive Framework 2021 agreement: Pillar 2. It argues that the agreement has sufficient elements to create incentives for large headquarters countries to implement it. Conditional on them doing so, there is an incentive for host countries to follow suit. The agreement would put a significant floor on tax competition. However, there are caveats to this argument in terms of complexity and the incentive to maintain some provisions that are likely to raise little revenue.

Keywords: International tax, Tax reform, Tax competition, Tax coordination, Pillar 2

JEL Classification: H25, H32, F23, F42

Suggested Citation:

Devereux, Michael P., International Tax Competition and Coordination with a Global Minimum Tax (October 2022). Forthcoming, National Tax Journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4335055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4335055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
843
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
66,295
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies