Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elasticity of Taxable Income and Optimal Taxation in Brazil

42 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023 Last revised: 31 Jan 2023

Fabio Avila de Castro

Universidade de Brasília (UnB) - Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro

Marcelo Medeiros

IPEA - Institute for Applied Economic Research; UnB - University of Brasilia

Maria Eduarda Tannuri-Pianto

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rafael Terra

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 25, 2023

Abstract

Using longitudinal data for a panel of Brazilian personal income tax returns between 2011 and 2017 we estimate the elasticity of taxable income (ETI) before and after deductions of personal income tax and calculate optimal taxation levels. The behavioral response is examined using a natural experiment, the phenomenon of ‘bracket creep’, an implicit increase in marginal tax rates of some taxpayers due to inflation. The estimated ETI unweighted by income is 0.76 for taxable income and 0.71 for gross income. When weighting by income, the respective ETIs are 0.64 and 0.61. We found much higher elasticities for the self-employed than for wage earners and deductions play a minor role. Considering base-shift, the revenue-maximizing rates are 47.6%, for the higher bracket and 38.2%, for the top 1% income, with associated marginal costs of efficiency of -0.61 and -1.34 Brazilian Reais (R$), respectively.

Keywords: Elasticity of Taxable Income, Optimal Tax Rates, Personal Income Tax, Bracket Creep, Tax Behavioral Response, Tax Natural Experiment

JEL Classification: H24, H31, J22

Suggested Citation:

Castro, Fábio Avila de and Medeiros, Marcelo and Tannuri-Pianto, Maria Eduarda and Terra, Rafael, Elasticity of Taxable Income and Optimal Taxation in Brazil (January 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4337128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies