Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Superstar Firms Face Lower Tax Burdens?

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4337736

55 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2023 Last revised: 7 Feb 2024

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

William Yoder

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: June 26, 2025

Abstract

Influential research finds that economic activity is increasingly concentrated in large, highly profitable "superstar firms." An important yet unresolved policy question is whether superstar firms face tax burdens—taxes paid relative to pre-tax economic income—that are lower than that of other firms, which could contribute to their entrenchment. Acting on such concerns, policymakers are increasingly enacting tax increases that apply only to the largest, most profitable firms. We investigate whether superstar firms do indeed face lower tax burdens. Examining traditional cash effective tax rates (ETRs), we find some evidence that superstar firms face lower tax burdens. However, as measures of tax burdens, traditional ETRs are distorted by the financial accounting treatment of internally generated intangible assets. When employing an intangible-adjusted effective tax rate (IETR) measure that better accounts for internally generated intangibles, we find that the gap between superstar firms’ tax burdens and those faced by other firms narrows considerably, becoming statistically indistinguishable from zero in many specifications.

Keywords: superstar firms, corporate taxes, intangible assets

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M21, L22, L41

Suggested Citation:

Gallemore, John and Maydew, Edward L. and Yoder, William, Do Superstar Firms Face Lower Tax Burdens? (June 26, 2025). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4337736, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337736 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4337736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Maire ; Grullon
Despite the policymaker concern over superstar firms' taxes, there is little empirical evidence on the extent, if any, to which superstar firms have lower tax burdens. To provide such evidence, we must operationalize the concept of a superstar firm
Ayyagari, Demirgüç-Kunt, and Maksimovic Posted: 2017
France Moves to Tax Tech Giants, Stoking Fight With White House
The New York Times Posted: 2019-07-11
D Andrews , C Criscuolo , P N Gal
Frontier firms, technology diffusion and public policy: Micro evidence from OECD countries Posted: 2015
D Autor , D Dorn , L F Katz , C Patterson , J Van Reenen
The fall of the labor share and the rise of superstar firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 135 , issue 2 , p. 645 - 709 Posted: 2020
Load more
3 Citations
Stephanie F. Cheng , Dushyantkumar Vyas , Regina Wittenberg-Moerman , Wuyang Zhao
Exposure to superstar firms and financial distress
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 1355 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Yifan Li , Zhuang Miao
The rise of superstar firms in the United States: The role of global sourcing
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 113 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Jitamitra Behera , Ruchi Sharma
Understanding superstar firms’ phenomenon
Competitiveness Review: An International Business Journal Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
124,243
3 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies