Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Taxes to Attract the Creative Class in the Presence of a Region-Specific Rent

MPRA Paper No. 116156, 2023, https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/116156

15 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2023

Amitrajeet A. Batabyal

Rochester Institute of Technology

Seung Jick Yoo

Sookmyung Women's University - Department of Climate and Environmental Studies

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 27, 2023

Abstract

We analyze interregional competition between two regions A and B that use taxes to attract a representative creative class member (the entrepreneur). This entrepreneur establishes a firm in either region A or B and this action guarantees her profit. However, if the entrepreneur locates in region A then she also obtains a stochastic, location-specific rent that is either high with positive probability or low with positive complementary probability. In this setting, we accomplish three tasks. First, given values of the two tax rates, we determine the payoff to the entrepreneur in the two regions for the two possible values of the location-specific rent in A. Second, we ascertain when the entrepreneur will locate in A for both values of the rent and when she will locate in B. Finally, we compute the tax rate that B will set and then specify a condition which ensures that the entrepreneur locates in B.

Keywords: Creative Class, Entrepreneur, Interregional Competition, Region-Specific Rent, Tax

JEL Classification: R12, H25

Suggested Citation:

Batabyal, Amitrajeet A. and Yoo, Seung Jick, Using Taxes to Attract the Creative Class in the Presence of a Region-Specific Rent (January 27, 2023). MPRA Paper No. 116156, 2023, https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/116156, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4339631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4339631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
340
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies