Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reserve Mechanical Corp v Comm: The Judicial Capsizing of Aggressive Captive Insurance

UC Davis Business Law Journal Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

Geoffrey Dietrich

Cantley Dietrich LLC

Date Written: January 20, 2023

Abstract

There is a storm brewing in the tax world, and there may be no safe harbor in sight for aggressive captive insurance promoters. On May 13th, 2022, the U.S. Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals handed down a major defeat to an aggressive captive insurance program. In a landmark case, Reserve Mechanical Corp. v. Commissioner, the Court found that the transactions in which the captive insurance company, Reserve Mechanical, engaged were not insurance transactions. As a result, Reserve Mechanical was not an insurance company, and, therefore, could not take advantage of a federal income tax exemption under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) § 501(c)(15). For several years, tax promoters have used this captive insurance federal income tax exemption (and IRC § 831(b) which applies to larger captives) to save on federal income tax. Promoters of aggressive captive insurance programs convince businesses into paying them to set up captive insurance companies to utilize these exemptions, while taking a federal tax deduction for the payment to the captive for the captive insurance. However, the federal captive insurance deduction has been abused for quite some time. The usual pattern is for businesses to pay their captives premiums, which are often determined using poor or nonexistent actuarial data. Then, promoters often pool certain (or all) of the captive insurance policies. However, some or all of the premiums may subsequently be paid back to the captive-issuing businesses as loans, making the distributions tax-free. The Tenth Circuit ruled definitively that these captives are not performing actual insurance transactions.

Keywords: captive insurance, taxation, tax-exempt, Reserve Mechanical

Suggested Citation:

Cantley, Beckett and Dietrich, Geoffrey, Reserve Mechanical Corp v Comm: The Judicial Capsizing of Aggressive Captive Insurance (January 20, 2023). UC Davis Business Law Journal Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4340944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
826,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies