Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Property Rights, Taxation, and Firms' Innovation: Theory and Evidence from China

29 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Rongxin Xu

University of Macau - Department of Economics

Yibai Yang

University of Macau - Department of Economics

Zhijie Zheng

Beijing Normal University - Zhuhai Campus

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

This study develops an R&D-based growth model with taxation to explore the heterogeneous effects of intellectual property rights (IPR) protection on innovation of firms with different tax rates. Our theoretical analysis shows that strengthening IPR stimulates innovation, and a higher tax rate dampens the positive effect of IPR. Moreover, we find supportive evidence for the theoretical result using firm-level data in China. Our empirical analysis shows that strengthening IPR is associated with less innovation by high-tax firms and more innovation by low-tax firms.

Keywords: Intellectual Property Rights; Taxation; Innovation; Economic Growth

JEL Classification: E62; H20; O30; O31

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Rongxin and Yang, Yibai and Zheng, Zhijie, Intellectual Property Rights, Taxation, and Firms' Innovation: Theory and Evidence from China (January 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
595
RANK
640,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies