Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Subjective Costs of Tax Compliance

Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2023-05

Minnesota Law Review, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2023 Last revised: 22 Jun 2023

Jonathan H. Choi

Washington University School of Law

Ariel Jurow Kleiman

University of Southern California Gould School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

This Article introduces and estimates “subjective costs” of tax compliance, which are costs of tax compliance that people experience directly and individually. To measure these costs, we conducted a survey experiment assessing how much taxpayers would pay to reduce the unpleasantness associated with filing a tax return. The experiment revealed that taxpayers are more concerned about inadvertent mistakes in their tax filings than by the time spent on compliance. Respondents also only ascribed meaningful value to eliminating all tax compliance work; they ascribed essentially no value to marginal time savings. Additionally, taxpayers were indifferent between simplification services offered by a private company versus the government.

These findings have important implications for theory and policy. From a theoretical perspective, these survey results call into question the nearly universal practice of using market wages to monetize the time that people spend on tax compliance work. Indeed, our results suggest that people value their tax compliance time at a rate much lower than their hourly wage. Regarding policy, these findings counsel policymakers to think big when it comes to reducing tax compliance costs and focus on simplifications that reduce mistakes rather than merely saving time. They also suggest that policymakers need not be overly concerned about mistrust of government in the context of tax simplification and automation services.

Keywords: tax compliance, tax policy, tax, tax administration, discrete choice, willingness to pay, tax credits, EITC, tax simplification, tax reform

JEL Classification: D61, H20, H24, H26, H83, M48, C83, H40, H31

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jonathan H. and Jurow Kleiman, Ariel, Subjective Costs of Tax Compliance (February 1, 2023). Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2023-05, Minnesota Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4345082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4345082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
E G See , Erica York , Alex Muresianu , Tax Found
millions-of-americans (explaining how increasing the standard deduction simplifies tax filing) , volume 4 Posted: 2018
Id
13 Editorial, Would You Trust the IRS to Do Your Taxes? Posted: 2023-03-23
See Mccarthy
supra note 5. 15 Id. 141 See Daniel Kahneman & Jack Knetsch, Valuing Public Goods: The Purchase of Moral Satisfaction , volume 22 , p. 58 - 59 Posted: 1990
Id
Load more
1 Citations
Janine Myburg , Daniel Schutte
SMMEs’ business mindset on tax compliance in North West: Perceptions and challenges
The Southern African Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,214
RANK
141,605
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Minnesota Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies