Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Uncertainty: Uncertain Tax Strategies and Implicit Taxes

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2023-4347999

52 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2023

Trent Krupa

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 4, 2023

Abstract

Economic theory suggests that tax-favored strategies attract investment, and this increased investment demand offsets tax benefits through lower pre-tax returns (i.e., implicit taxes). We propose that aggressive strategies that generate uncertain tax benefits have lower demand due to both the concern that the tax authority will overturn these uncertain strategies upon audit and because the firm does not receive the full benefit of the strategies on its financial statements. Consistent with this, we find that firms’ investment in uncertain tax positions, holding cash effective tax rates constant, is associated with lower implicit taxes (i.e., higher pre-tax earnings and firm value). Subsequent analysis using exogenous variation in IRS enforcement supports the audit mechanism and helps mitigate concerns about reverse causality. Lower implicit taxes also arise, in part, from the earnings effects of uncertain tax positions, supporting the financial reporting mechanism. Our results illustrate a non-tax benefit of uncertain tax strategies.

Keywords: Implicit Taxes, Tax Avoidance, Uncertain Tax Positions

JEL Classification: G32, H25, M4

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Trent and Utke, Steven and Williams, Brian, The Benefits of Uncertainty: Uncertain Tax Strategies and Implicit Taxes (February 4, 2023). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2023-4347999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4347999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4347999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,136
RANK
328,705
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies