Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top of the Grade: Factors that Could Influence Small Business Literacy

(2022) Journal of Australian Taxation 24(1): 5 - 34

Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2023

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: December 30, 2022

Abstract

Small business owners (SBOs) need a level of tax, computer accounting software, and financial statement literacy to effectively manage their cash flow, which could influence business performance. Research was conducted with small business experts to provide a greater understanding of what aids or hinders the development of these literacies for SBOs. The findings suggest that improvement could be hindered by lack of time, money, basic financial education, the complexity of the tax system, and the SBOs individual anxiety. With this understanding, recommendations can be made as to how these important literacies may be improved.

Keywords: Small business, literacy, taxation, experts, financial statements, computer accounting software

JEL Classification: K34, L20

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, Top of the Grade: Factors that Could Influence Small Business Literacy (December 30, 2022). (2022) Journal of Australian Taxation 24(1): 5 - 34, Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4349252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Counts of Australian Businesses including Entries and Exits Posted: 2017-06
' Oecd , Small , Medium , Strong
Trends in SME Performance and Business Conditions
OECD Trends in SME Posted: 2017
Brett Freudenberg
Worker Status: How can we get it working for Australia's tax system
Eliza Ahmed , Valerie Braithwaite , ; C Sandford , Håkan Malmer
Understanding Small Business Taxpayers issues of Deterrence, Tax Morale, Fairness and Work Practice
International Small Business Journal , volume 23 , issue 5 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
687
RANK
405,369
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies