Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passing the Shareholders’ Tax Burden to the Corporation: Evidence from Inheritance and Gift Tax

Corporate Governance: An International Review, 0[10.1111/corg.12661]

59 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023 Last revised: 19 Jul 2025

Hyun Jong Na

Hanyang University

Tyler Taejin Jung

Hanyang University - School of Business

Date Written: November 20, 2020

Abstract

Research Question/Issue

We examine how controlling shareholders' personal tax burdens, specifically inheritance and gift tax obligations, affect firm-level financial decisions. Using a unique setting in South Korea, we investigate whether and how firms adjust their dividend policies in response to shareholder-level liquidity pressures. 


Research Findings/Insights
Using hand-collected data on inheritance and gift events affecting controlling shareholders, we find that firms significantly increase dividend payouts following such events. The magnitude of the increase is positively related to the size of the tax burden. Cross-sectional analyses show that the dividend response is stronger in firms with high potential for expropriation, while the response is mitigated in firms with strong board independence and analyst monitoring. In addition, we document significant economic consequences. Increased payouts are associated with reductions in capital investment and employment and are followed by negative stock market reactions to dividend announcements. 


Theoretical/Academic Implications
Our findings show that shareholder-specific tax shocks can propagate through corporate governance channels and lead to firm-level financial decisions. This expands the literature on shareholder taxation by identifying a novel mechanism through which tax burdens shape corporate outcomes. 


Practitioner/Policy Implications
Our study provides new insights for tax policymakers. By documenting unintended corporate consequences of inheritance and gift taxation, we inform ongoing policy debates regarding intergenerational tax design, particularly in countries with concentrated ownership and limited succession relief.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Shareholder-level Tax, Real effects of Taxation, Dividends

JEL Classification: G35, H24, D25, M40

Suggested Citation:

Na, Hyun Jong and Jung, Tyler Taejin, Passing the Shareholders’ Tax Burden to the Corporation: Evidence from Inheritance and Gift Tax (November 20, 2020). Corporate Governance: An International Review, 0[10.1111/corg.12661], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4352798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/corg.12661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
P D Allison , A Alstadsae Ter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2009
H J Amberger
Volatility of Tax Payments and Dividend Payouts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 451 - 487 Posted: 2023
G S Bae , Y S Cheon , J K Kang
Intragroup propping: Evidence from the stock-price effects of earnings announcements by Korean business groups
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 2015 - 2060 Posted: 2008
K H Bae , J K Kang , J M Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
552,835
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies