Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Personalized VAT with Capital Transfers: A Reform to Protect Low-Income Households in Mexico

62 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2023 Last revised: 19 Jul 2023

Laurence J. Kotlikoff

Boston University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy

Guillermo Lagarda

Global Development Policy Center Boston University; Inter-American Development Bank

Gabriel Marin

Inter-American Development Bank, Research Department

Date Written: February 10, 2023

Abstract

The Value-Added Tax (VAT) is the most prevalent consumption tax globally, yet it is frequently deemed highly regressive. To address this, we propose a Personalized VAT (PVAT) devised in conjunction with a distributional policy. We aim to achieve three objectives: increase revenue collection, achieve progressivity, and disrupt the intergenerational dependency of low-income households. We use Mexico as a case study, showing that eliminating all special VAT regimes and standardizing the rate at 16% could contribute an additional 2.2% of GDP to fiscal revenues. However, such a reform could have severe negative welfare impacts on the poor. To tackle this
dilemma, we propose several PVAT scenarios. Our results indicate that a PVAT could be fiscally neutral or even increase revenues by up to 0.83% of GDP, while benefiting the lowest income households. Lastly, we analyze the general equilibrium effects of a PVAT and various distributional policies, including lump-sum and capital transfers. For this purpose, we employ an overlapping generations model calibrated for Mexico. Our simulations reveal welfare enhancing and output growth results through a PVAT policy that includes capital transfers, thereby presenting a viable strategy for breaking intergenerational dependency.

Keywords: Value-Added Tax, Personalized Value-Added Tax, Tax Reform, Progressivity, Saving-Inducing Taxation, Economic Development, Overlapping Generations, Incidence

JEL Classification: E62, H21, O11, O12

Suggested Citation:

Kotlikoff, Laurence J. and Lagarda, Guillermo and Marin, Gabriel, A Personalized VAT with Capital Transfers: A Reform to Protect Low-Income Households in Mexico (February 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4355966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4355966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
L Abramovsky , O Attanasio , C Emmerson , D Phillips
The distributional impact of reforms to direct and indirect tax in mexico: Analytical report and results Posted: 2011
L Abramovsky , O Attanasio , C Emmerson , D Phillips , H J V Paez
The distributional impact of reforms to direct and indirect tax in mexico: Methodological issues and approach Posted: 2010
L Abramovsky , D Phillips
A tax micro-simulator for mexico (mextax) and its application to the 2010 tax reforms Posted: 2015
R T Ainsworth
The digital vat (d-vat)
Va. Tax Rev , volume 25 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
752
RANK
427,404
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Inter-American Development Bank Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies