Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Multinational Firm Behavior

chapter in the International Tax Policy Forum/Brookings Institution book: “Global Goliaths: Multinational Corporations in the 21st Century Economy.” 2021

91 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2023 Last revised: 18 Mar 2023

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: January 7, 2023

Abstract

This chapter reviews, and at times extends, the literature on multinational corporate income tax avoidance and its consequences. It is first important to note that multinational corporations pay a substantial amount of taxes, both direct and indirect. Yet, it is also the case that there is evidence 1) of tax avoidance, including cross-jurisdictional income shifting and 2) that the location of ‘real’ items such as investment, debt, and employment are sensitive to taxation. In addition, in certain cases, tax avoidance necessitates changes to ‘real’ activity. While there is evidence of income shifting, the literature is not settled on the extent to which it occurs. The chapter briefly touches on the financial accounting and reputational incentives and disincentives for tax avoidance. It ends with a short discussion of the early research following recent tax-regime changes.

Keywords: Tax, Multinational Corporation, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: H2, M40, F50

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Hanlon, Michelle, Tax Avoidance and Multinational Firm Behavior (January 7, 2023). chapter in the International Tax Policy Forum/Brookings Institution book: “Global Goliaths: Multinational Corporations in the 21st Century Economy.” 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4359219 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4359219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,796
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,823
RANK
22,034
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies