Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Black Taxpayers Matter? A Critical Tax Analysis of IRS Audit Practices

Stanford Journal of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023 Last revised: 4 Jun 2023

Diane Kemker

Pepperdine University - Rick J. Caruso School of Law; Southern University Law Center

Date Written: February 24, 2023

Abstract

The Earned Income Tax Credit, a federal anti-poverty program administered through the tax system, provides a total of about $65 billion a year in “refundable credits” (a payment in excess of tax liability) to more than 25 million working low-income taxpayers, who receive an average of about $2000 (the precise amount depends on their number of dependents). Its complex eligibility rules produce persistently high error rates, which are in turn used to justify high audit rates and a grossly disproportionate share of IRS enforcement activity. Because of the small dollar amounts involved, EITC audits are not lucrative, although they are also not terribly costly (as most are conducted by correspondence and not contested). EITC audits are pre-refund, forcing poor taxpayers to wait months even for the undisputed portion of what they claim. Those who are audited are deterred from claiming it again; some mistakes can disqualify taxpayers from receiving it in future years. Given all this, perhaps it is not surprising that the EITC is underclaimed (about 20% of the eligible do not claim it).

Making matters worse, despite the formal race-neutrality of the Internal Revenue Code and all IRS policies and practices, EITC audit practices have grossly racially disparate effects. America’s poorest, Blackest counties are audited at some of the very highest rates. Black EITC claimants, and especially Black fathers claiming the EITC, are the likeliest taxpayers in America to be audited. Recent work by economists has confirmed what many critical tax law scholars have long suspected: that the same systematic racial inequities long identified and decried in the allegedly race-blind criminal justice system afflict the tax enforcement system as well.

This Article breaks new ground by using critical theory, the work of Michel Foucault, Critical Race Theory, and intersectional analysis, to help understand and interpret empirical data about the EITC and IRS EITC audit practices that otherwise defy explanation - not only these racially disparate impacts but also the complex and punitive features of the EITC itself and the ongoing expenditure of scarce IRS resources on pointless EITC enforcement. This analysis unearths the role played in tax policy and tax enforcement by the very same persistent anti-Black stereotypes that have distorted both criminal justice and American welfare policy: myths about Black laziness, criminality, promiscuity, and family dysfunction. The Article also reveals the inadequacy of tax law casebook coverage of this issue, which generally either ignores it or, worse, perpetuates the same damaging stereotypes.

Keywords: EITC, tax, poverty, race, racism, Critical Race Theory, Earned Income Tax Credit, Black

Suggested Citation:

Kemker, Diane, Do Black Taxpayers Matter? A Critical Tax Analysis of IRS Audit Practices (February 24, 2023). Stanford Journal of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4369916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4369916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
John Guyton , Patrick Langetieg , Daniel Reck , Max Risch , Gabriel Zucman
Tax Evasion at the Top of the Income Distribution: Theory and Evidence , volume 31 , p. 26 - 27 Posted: 2021-03
Francine J Lipman , Natasha Sarin
The Case for a Robust Attack on the Tax Gap
Tax Audits, Economics, and Racism (hereinafter "Lipman"), Oxford Research Economics and Finance , volume 10 Posted: 2021
Improper Payment Rates for Refundable Tax Credits Remain High
E G See
Paid Preparers Have Highest Rate of EITC Claims in Error , volume 23 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
409,562
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies