Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion and Benefit Fraud: A Study of the Use of Techniques of Neutralization

Deviant Behavior, 2023 https://doi.org/10.1080/01639625.2023.2179442.

25 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2023

Lisa Marriott

Victoria University of Wellington

Jessica C. Lai

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

This article examines the techniques of neutralization (ToN) used by tax evaders and benefit fraudsters in the Aotearoa New Zealand justice system. Using data from court sentencing notes, we code our data into ToN to provide insights into the different excuses and justifications that are used by the two different offender categories. We find overall greater use of ToN by tax evaders (in number of use and in number of kinds), along with greater use of ToN that are legislated mitigating factors, such as claims of a good character. Good character was among the least used ToN among benefit fraudsters. We found limited commonality among the ToN used, with benefit fraud cases more likely to reference anti-social factors (e.g. drugs, gambling, violence or alcohol). Tax offenders were more likely to claim the act was anomalous, while benefit fraudsters were more likely to focus on excusing factors, such as physical or mental health. Tax evaders were also more likely to deny injury from their actions, while a higher proportion of benefit fraudsters were actively making reparation for their offending, despite financial necessity being a common ToN for the offending. Overall, the ToN used by tax evaders supports the literature that suggests that tax evaders, as white-collar criminals, are better able to exploit their existing advantage in the justice system than their benefit fraudster counterparts.

Keywords: techniques of neutralization, tax evasion, benefit fraud

JEL Classification: H26, K34, K39, K49

Suggested Citation:

Marriott, Lisa and Lai, Jessica C., Tax Evasion and Benefit Fraud: A Study of the Use of Techniques of Neutralization (2023). Deviant Behavior, 2023 https://doi.org/10.1080/01639625.2023.2179442., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4370890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
RANK
636,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies