Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Life of IP: Accounting and Tax Treatments of Trade Marks and Goodwill in New Zealand

(2019) 41(12) European Intellectual Property Review 733-742

16 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2023

Jessica C. Lai

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Lisa Marriott

Victoria University of Wellington

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This article examines goodwill and trade marks from the perspectives of accounting and tax, running through their lifecycles. We raise and challenge four propositions. These pertain to the tax and accounting treatment of trade marks and goodwill as being of less value than patents and copyright, as being static in nature, being indefinite, and the relationship between black-hole expenditure and investment in intangible assets.

Keywords: trade marks, accounting, tax

JEL Classification: K11, K39, H20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Jessica C. and Marriott, Lisa, The Life of IP: Accounting and Tax Treatments of Trade Marks and Goodwill in New Zealand ( 2019). (2019) 41(12) European Intellectual Property Review 733-742, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4371493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4371493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
463
RANK
856,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies