Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of auditors and banks in the tax aggressiveness of private firms

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2023

Markus Mättö

University of Eastern Finland - Department of Business

Mervi Niskanen

University of Eastern Finland

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Date Written: March 2, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the role of auditors and monitoring banks in the tax aggressiveness of private firms. We use a unique data set of private SMEs in Finland where book-tax alignment is high and the auditing of private firms (exceeding a low threshold) is mandatory. We add to the existing literature by investigating the auditing of small private firms and using more detailed measures for bank monitoring. Our results suggest a positive association between tax aggressiveness and audit quality, implying that auditors play a greater role in providing tax-related planning services than restraining tax aggressiveness. Furthermore, bank monitoring is positively associated with tax aggressiveness. This is consistent with lending banks being more interested in cash savings than reducing tax aggressiveness. Finally, we find no evidence of a joint effect of auditing and bank relationships. These results will interest the owners and managers of private companies, tax authorities and banks, and the accounting and auditing profession.

Keywords: Private firm, tax aggressiveness, tax avoidance, audit, monitoring, Big 4, bank lending

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Mättö, Markus and Niskanen, Mervi and Ojala, Hannu, The role of auditors and banks in the tax aggressiveness of private firms (March 2, 2023). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4375536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4375536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
636
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies