Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fundamental Right to Fair and Equitable Treatment in the Cross-Border Recovery of Taxes within the EU: A Need for a Common Minimum Standard

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 1 ; 15 p.

30 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2023 Last revised: 16 Sep 2025

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: December 22, 2023

Abstract

This article examines the application of the EU fundamental rights protection standard in the context of cross-border recovery of taxes within the European Union. It argues that, when the Tax Recovery Directive is applicable, the standard of protection is adequate due to the principle of conforming interpretation requiring that secondary law is interpreted in line with primary law. However, we also contend that any fundamental rights violation at the level of the initial procedure for establishing the tax claim in the requesting Member State cannot be remedied whenever that procedure is in an area outside the scope of EU law (most of the direct tax measures). At the same time, the outcomes of such a procedure are subject to mutual recognition in other Member States. Therefore, and in order to strengthen the principle of mutual trust within the Union, the article proposes introducing a piece of secondary legislation that spells out a minimum standard of protection of taxpayers’ rights.

Full-text paper

Keywords: recovery of tax, constitutional law, tax authorities, taxpayer rights, ECJ case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Lazarov, Ivan and Pistone, Pasquale, The Fundamental Right to Fair and Equitable Treatment in the Cross-Border Recovery of Taxes within the EU: A Need for a Common Minimum Standard (December 22, 2023). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 1 ; 15 p. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4380344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J Owens , I Lazarov , N Costa
Exploring the opportunities and challenges of new technologies for EU tax administration and policy
Study to the EP Subcommittee on Tax Matters (FISC)
M Husovek
The Slovak Constitutional Court on Risk Profiling and Automated Decision-Making by the Tax Authority
D Hadwick , S Lan
Lessons to Be Learned from the Dutch Childcare Allowance Scandal: A Comparative Review of Algorithmic Governance by Tax Administrations in the Netherlands, France and Germany
World Tax J , volume 13 Posted: 2021
De
Rewe v Bundesmonopolverwaltung für Branntwein Posted: 1979-02-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies