Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Disadvantage of Debt

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 4381695

20 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2023

Richard C. Sansing

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Date Written: March 7, 2023

Abstract

This study identifies a tax disadvantage of debt that arises when a firm’s business model fails and it liquidates its assets at a loss. If the outstanding debt is greater than or equal to the salvage value of the firm’s assets, the firm will not have assets to generate income to use the loss generated by the liquidation. Furthermore, tax law restrictions limit the ability of new investors or another firm to acquire the failed firm and make use of its net operating loss carryover. Anticipating this situation, the firm issues debt that is less than the salvage value of its assets, even if the probability of liquidation in the short-run is very low. If the probability of liquidation in the short-run is not too low, an all-equity capital structure is optimal.

Keywords: Capital structure, Underleverage, Corporate tax

JEL Classification: \G32, G33, H25

Suggested Citation:

Sansing, Richard C., The Tax Disadvantage of Debt (March 7, 2023). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 4381695, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4381695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4381695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
799
RANK
420,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies