Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Intellectual Property Assets on a Cross-Border Transaction: Application of Mobilia Sequuntur Personam and the Case of the India–Mauritius Tax Treaty

British Tax Review, Issue 1, 2023

22 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2023

M. P. Ram Mohan

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Aditya Gupta

American University Washington College of Law; National University of Study and Research in Law, Ranchi

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

Intellectual Property (IP) assets enjoy a unique advantage in tax planning. Owing to their intangible nature and lack of physical substance, IP assets can be methodically parked to transfer income between tax jurisdictions. In 2016, the Delhi High Court was presented with a dispute in which IP assets registered in India were transferred between an Australian and an English company through their subsidiary holdings in Mauritius. The question before the court was which tax jurisdiction, India, Australia or Mauritius, would be entitled to tax the capital gains arising from the transaction. The court held that if a foreign corporation owns an IP asset, regardless of its registration and use in India, it would be taxed by the jurisdiction of the owner’s residence. Coming to its conclusion, the Indian court found a legislative vacuum in the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, and relied on the doctrine of mobilia sequuntur personam to fill the lacuna. This article examines the relevance of the doctrine in line with precedential guidelines and the international treaty framework. The article reveals that, either inadvertently or by design, the Indo–Mauritian Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) creates an instance of double tax exemption of Mauritian-owned, Indian-registered IP assets.

Note: “This material was first published by Thomson Reuters, trading as Sweet & Maxwell, 5 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AQ, in the British Tax Review as Taxing Intellectual Property Assets on a Cross-Border Transaction: Application of Mobilia Sequuntur Personam and the Case of the India–Mauritius Tax Treaty [2023] B.T.R., No.1 and is reproduced by agreement with the publishers”.

Keywords: Intellectual Property Rights, Tax, Indo–Mauritian Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, India, Mobilia Sequuntur Personam

Suggested Citation:

M. P., Ram Mohan and Gupta, Aditya, Taxing Intellectual Property Assets on a Cross-Border Transaction: Application of Mobilia Sequuntur Personam and the Case of the India–Mauritius Tax Treaty (March 14, 2023). British Tax Review, Issue 1, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
RANK
208,171
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies