Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reactions to Treasury Regulations: The Case of GILTI

Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming


52 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2023 Last revised: 18 Nov 2024

Amanda Marino

San Diego State University - Fowler College of Business

Luke Watson

Villanova University

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

We examine the firm value effects of Treasury Regulations, a powerful source of tax law that prior research has largely overlooked. The hasty enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) left interpretive gaps for Treasury to fill. We employ Treasury Regulations related to the TCJA’s global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions as an identifiable setting that impacts many firms. We predict that investors will react negatively (positively) to regulations that investors expect to increase (decrease) firms’ future tax burdens or the uncertainty thereof. We identify firms affected by GILTI through their disclosures and find significant market reactions for these firms around the issuance of Treasury Regulations related to the GILTI provisions. Importantly, we find that these reactions vary cross-sectionally on observable characteristics and that institutional investors drive these reactions. The study improves our understanding of how administrative law shapes tax policy by documenting shareholder reactions to Treasury Regulations.

Keywords: Treasury Regulations, multinational tax, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Suggested Citation:

Marino, Amanda and Watson, Luke, Investor Reactions to Treasury Regulations: The Case of GILTI (November 18, 2024). Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4387742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4387742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
J L Abernathy , S A Davenport , E T Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock price reaction and economic consequences
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2013
T J Atwood , T P Johnson
U.S. multinational corporations' initial income-shifting response to the TCJA Posted: 2021
W Beaver
The information content of annual earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
M M Carhart , E Choi , W Du , C Riley
The impact of Wayfair vs. South Dakota on retailers: An event study
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1180 - 1186 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
627
RANK
528,080
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies