Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Repurchases and the Inflation Reduction Act

30 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2023

Paul Brockman

Lehigh University - College of Business

Zhe (Michael) Guo

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Jesus M. Salas

Lehigh University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: March 14, 2023

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) on shareholder wealth and corporate agency costs. The IRA, signed into law on August 16, 2022, represents the first time in U.S. history that stock repurchases became subject to excise taxes. The stated goal of this new tax was to discourage short-term managerial opportunism, and to encourage long-term investment in real assets and employment. Using event study methodology, we estimate abnormal returns around critical dates during the IRA passage process to evaluate investor perceptions. The empirical results provide support for our two main hypotheses; specifically, we find negative wealth effects for repurchase-intensive firms and higher agency costs for weak-governance firms.

Keywords: Repurchases, Buybacks, Taxes, IRA

JEL Classification: G31, G35, E22, E24

Suggested Citation:

Brockman, Paul and Guo, Zhe (Michael) and Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Salas, Jesus M., Share Repurchases and the Inflation Reduction Act (March 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4389023 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4389023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
189,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies