Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Literacy and Dividend Capturing

38 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Yupeng Lin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN); Business School, National University of Singapore

Hong Tu

APEC Study Center of Nankai University

Ximing Yin

College of Finance and Statistics, Hunan University

Date Written: March 16, 2023

Abstract

The 2012 tax reform in China linked the dividend tax rate to investors’ share holding period, with a lower rate corresponding to longer holding. Using account-level data for which we know exactly the timing, size, directions, and prices of retail investors’ trades, we document that the reform discouraged retail investors with insufficient financial literacy from dividend-capturing. Conditional on dividend capturing, retail investors with high financial literacy realized higher returns and displayed a higher return sensitivity to dividend yield. Our research suggests that a subset of retail investors is sufficiently literate to adopt dividend-capturing, contributing to dividend tax capitalization.

Keywords: Ex-dividend; Tax reform; Financial literacy; Tax capitalization

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Oliver Zhen and Lin, Yupeng and Tu, Hong and Yin, Ximing, Financial Literacy and Dividend Capturing (March 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4390309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4390309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,390
RANK
409,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies