Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Increases in Tax Policy Uncertainty Affect Tax Planning and Other Investments?

51 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

Charles Lee

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: February 15, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether firm-specific tax policy uncertainty (TPU) influences corporate investment decisions. Investment theory predicts that with uncertain project cash flows, firms should elect to delay committing to investments. Consistent with this prediction, we ﬁnd that TPU deters the undertaking of both tax planning and other investments, incremental to the firm’s non-tax uncertainties. We further show that, during periods of unusually high TPU when tax planning investments are especially more valuable, firms appear to substitute away from general investments toward tax planning. These findings suggest that firms prefer to direct resources toward engaging with tax experts for guidance when the tax environment is more uncertain. Overall, we find that tax policy uncertainty has a negative effect on corporate investments.

Keywords: tax policy uncertainty, investment, tax planning

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Charles and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., Do Increases in Tax Policy Uncertainty Affect Tax Planning and Other Investments? (February 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4390298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4390298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
240,169
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies