Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards Green Driving? Income Tax Incentives for Company Cars

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 118

76 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2023 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Henning Giese

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Svea Holtmann

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: March 20, 2023

Abstract

We examine the real eﬀects and cost-eﬃciency of a targeted policy designed to pro-mote low-emission corporate mobility. Speciﬁcally, we study a German reform that introduced a preferential income tax treatment for plug-in hybrid and electric company cars. Using a diﬀerence-in-diﬀerences design, we identify its causal impact on the sustainability of corporate ﬂeets and compare car models eligible for the preferential tax treatment in Germany with the same models in the neighboring country Austria. Our ﬁndings indicate that the tax beneﬁt increases the number of newly registered eligible cars by 95%. This ﬁnding is robust to several robustness checks, including a triple diﬀerence-in-diﬀerences speciﬁcation. A cost-beneﬁt analysis reveals that the reform is cost-ineﬃcient from a government perspective, with estimated costs of 1,266 € per saved ton of carbon dioxide (CO2), substantially exceeding those of comparable transport-sector measures. We also assess the reform’s implications for ﬁrms and estimate substantial abatement costs of 1,302 € per saved ton of corporate emissions. We show that the costs for both the government and ﬁrms would substantially decrease if the electric driving share of plug-in hybrids would be increased or only purely electric cars were eligible for the preferential tax treatment.

Keywords: green taxes, tax incentives, electric mobility, ESG reporting

JEL Classification: H24, Q53, R41

Suggested Citation:

Giese, Henning and Holtmann, Svea, Towards Green Driving? Income Tax Incentives for Company Cars (March 20, 2023). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 118, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4394968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4394968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Alberto Abadie , Susan Athey , Guido W Imbens , Jeffrey M Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
Jefferson Abraham , Marcel Olbert , Florin Vasvari
ESG Disclosures in the Private Equity Industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 5 , p. 1611 - 1660 Posted: 2024
Anna Alberini , Markus Bareit
The Effect of Registration Taxes on New Car Sales and Emissions: Evidence from Switzerland
Resource and Energy Economics , volume 56 , p. 96 - 112 Posted: 2019
Automarken & Modelle Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,650
RANK
158,103
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies