Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Government Spending Impacts Tax Compliance

Journal of Business Ethics (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-023-05383-3

University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4396722

Posted: 5 Apr 2023

Diana Falsetta

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Jennifer Kahle Schafer

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business; Kennesaw State University - School of Accountancy

George T. Tsakumis

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examines how taxpayer support for government spending can improve tax compliance. While there is ample evidence on the deterrent effect of audit probability on taxpayer on compliance, there is no evidence related to the moderating role that taxpayer support may have on compliance behavior. We also examine the moderating role that taxpayer ethics plays in compliance decisions. Results of our study indicate that the level of taxpayer support influences taxpayer compliance decisions, in that those with greater support for how tax dollars are spent report higher amounts of taxable income. In addition, we find that audit probability influences taxpayer compliance decisions when there is support for the government’s use of tax dollars for non-welfare programs, such as defense. However, for welfare programs, such as healthcare, taxpayer support leads to increased compliance regardless of audit rate. When taxpayers do not support government programs, their compliance is lower regardless of the audit probability. This highlights the importance of gaining taxpayer support for government programs and indicates that attempts to align the interests of taxpayers with those of the government may increase voluntary compliance among taxpayers. Finally, we find that taxpayer ethics influences compliance such that, for individuals who have lower ethical standards, a high audit rate as well as support for a program may be necessary to improve compliance behavior. Theoretical and practical implications of these findings are discussed.

Keywords: Tax evasion, Tax compliance, Taxpayer support, Taxpayer ethics, Machiavellianism, Audit probability

JEL Classification: H26, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Falsetta, Diana and Schafer, Jennifer Kahle and Tsakumis, George T., How Government Spending Impacts Tax Compliance (March 22, 2023). Journal of Business Ethics (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-023-05383-3, University of Miami Business School Research Paper No. 4396722, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4396722
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
868
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies