Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Disclosure as a Tax Enforcement Mechanism: Evidence from the U.K. Tax Strategy Disclosure Requirement

54 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2023 Last revised: 8 Jan 2025

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 21, 2024

Abstract

In 2016, the U.K. passed a regulation that requires large businesses to publicly disclose their tax strategy. The U.K. regulator expects these qualitative disclosures to attract public scrutiny of firms’ tax practices, thereby pressuring firms to reduce tax avoidance. This study examines whether the U.K. tax strategy disclosure requirement has achieved this objective. Using a difference-in-differences design and a sample of U.K. publicly traded firms, I find evidence that is most compatible with the regulation not having a significant impact on firms’ tax avoidance. Inferences are similar when I focus on subsamples that are most likely to exhibit the intended behavioral changes using a series of cross-sectional tests within treated firms. Thus, the collective evidence is largely inconsistent with the regulation successfully curbing tax avoidance, which should inform regulators worldwide as they consider implementing similar disclosure regulations to combat corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: Tax strategy disclosure, public scrutiny, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Xia, Junwei, Qualitative Disclosure as a Tax Enforcement Mechanism: Evidence from the U.K. Tax Strategy Disclosure Requirement (December 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4398078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4398078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
J R Adams , E Demers , K J Klassen
Tax aggressive behavior and voluntary tax disclosure: Evidence from corporate sustainability reporting Posted: 2022
C Armstrong , J D Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
Ato
Tax transparency: reporting of entity tax information Posted: 2018
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Jeri K. Seidman , Roshan K. Sinha , Bridget Stomberg
Tax audits and the policing of corporate taxes: Insights from tax executives
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 1744 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Lisa De Simone , Bridget Stomberg , Brian Williams
Does Tax Enforcement Disparately Affect Domestic versus Multinational Corporations Around the World?
50 Pages · Posted: 16 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 18 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 601
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
947
RANK
321,490
2 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies