Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Additivity of Reference Points: Income Taxation and Risk Aversion

24 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Elizabeth Chorvat

University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business

Terrence R. Chorvat

George Mason University - Antonin Scalia Law School

Date Written: April 3, 2023

Abstract

Reference dependence is one of the most robust features of applied economics. This paper considers the effect of taxes on reference points and by implication risk aversion. We first consider the experiments that have been conducted to date on the effects of income taxes on the willingness of investors to take on risk. The experiments very much differ in their results. Some indicate income taxes increase risk-taking, while others indicate they reduce risk-taking. This paper incorporates the results of a number of decision theory models by arguing that the key difference in these experiments is the effect of taxes on the reference points of the subjects. The paper discusses how reference points are affected by the structure of the choice environment in each of the experiments. The experiments discussed seem to indicate that pre-tax returns and taxes are not simply added or subtracted in the choices made by investors as predicted by standard economic theory. 

Keywords: decision-making, investment, risk, taxation, utility, prospect theory, risk aversion, portfolio choice

Suggested Citation:

Chorvat, Elizabeth and Chorvat, Terrence R., Non-Additivity of Reference Points: Income Taxation and Risk Aversion (April 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4407654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Fochmann Ackermann , Mihm
Biased Effects of Taxes and Subsidies on Portfolio Choices
Economic Letters , volume 120 , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2013
Z Bodie , A Kane , A J Marcus
Posted: 2008
S J Boylan , P J Frischmann
Experimental Evidence on the Role of Tax Complexity in Investment Decisions
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 69 - 88 Posted: 2006-09
J I Bulow , L H Summers
The Taxation of Risky Assets
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
605,632
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies