Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
First Things First: Using Anchoring Bias to Examine the Effect of Penalty Severity and Social Norms on Compliance

55 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2023

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

Research shows that penalties for tax fraud can increase observers’ compliance (i.e., following tax related rules). However, we do not have a clear understanding of how penalties at various levels of severity interact with national social norms to influence compliance differently. In order to establish what level of penalty severity encourages compliance (i.e., an appropriate penalty that is neither too lenient nor too harsh), I conduct a two-part survey. Based on these findings, I experimentally examine whether taxpayers’ compliance is affected by two factors: (1) Severity of noncompliance penalty and (2) National social norms of tax compliance. Results indicate that compliance is higher when noncompliance penalties are appropriate versus lenient. I also find that the benefit of appropriate penalties is suppressed when taxpayers anchor on information about the national social norms of tax compliance than when they do not have such information. With these results, I conclude that governments can increase compliance by imposing appropriately severe noncompliance penalties and promoting policies that improve compliance norms.

Keywords: anchoring bias, penalty severity, social norms, deterrence theory, compliance

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

King, Tisha, First Things First: Using Anchoring Bias to Examine the Effect of Penalty Severity and Social Norms on Compliance (March 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4407004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
RANK
511,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies