Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Media Sentiment Influence the Adjustment of the Level of Tax Avoidance?

60 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Chia-Hsiang Weng

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2, 2023

Abstract

This study argues that media sentiment shapes a firm's publicity, imposing extra reputation costs or noncompliance costs if firm managers fail to implement efficient tax planning. We find robust evidence showing that negative media sentiment leads to an increase (decrease) in three-year cash effective tax rates (CETRs) for firms whose current CETRs are below (above) the target levels. The effect is more pronounced for firms that are more sensitive to reputation costs, such as those with fewer positive news, younger CEOs, and negative tax avoidance news. However, the effect is not significant for firms that are more subject to scrutiny from tax authorities. Finally, we do not find evidence to support the idea that firms use aggressive tax strategies to achieve the target CETRs. Overall, our results suggest that the media plays an influential role in shaping firms' tax planning strategies mainly via reputation cost mechanism.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Optimal Tax Avoidance, Media Sentiment, Role of the Media, Reputation Cost

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Weng, Chia-Hsiang, How Does Media Sentiment Influence the Adjustment of the Level of Tax Avoidance? (April 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4407084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4407084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
832
RANK
306,268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies