Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Revenue, Privacy, and Profits under Taxed Targeted Advertisements

39 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Lennart Kraft

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: April 15, 2023

Abstract

Regulators implement Digital Service Tax (DST) – a tax applying to services of online advertisers and publishers – to generate tax revenue from the online advertising industry. Implementing DST on targeted ads increases their price and potentially decreases their number, thus mitigating the processing of consumers’ data. Consequently, the online advertising industry’s profits might decrease, and consumer privacy might improve. To this point, the impact of implementing DST on tax revenue, the number of targeted ads, and profits remain unquantified, preventing the regulator from understanding and resolving the resulting trade-off. This article estimates these impacts and derives a tax-revenue-maximizing tax rate. This tax rate establishes a helpful benchmark because a different tax rate reduces tax revenue, and a higher tax rate improves privacy but decreases profits and vice versa. The article’s empirical study of 20 million bid prices from 1 million real-time bidding auctions reveals that the tax-revenue-maximizing tax rate yields (i) a tax revenue equaling 10.00% and 13.85% of advertiser and publisher profits, (ii) reduces the number of targeted ads by 59.40%, and (iii) decreases the advertiser and publisher profit derived from targeted ads by 45.67% and 37.36%. These findings support regulators, consumers, and the online advertising industry in understanding the consequences of DST implementation and may help regulators select a tax rate.

Keywords: Online Advertising, Digital Service Taxes, Targeting, Consumer Privacy

JEL Classification: M3, M31, M37, H2

Suggested Citation:

Kraft, Lennart, Tax Revenue, Privacy, and Profits under Taxed Targeted Advertisements (April 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4419509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4419509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
533
RANK
772,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies