Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Property and Tax Incentives: a Comparative Analysis of the E.U. and the U.S. Legal Frameworks

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2023

TTLF Working Papers No. 101, Stanford-Vienna Transatlantic Technology Law Forum 2023

40 Pages Posted: 3 May 2023 Last revised: 19 Jan 2024

Amedeo Rizzo

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Bocconi University; Stanford Law School

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper analyzes the use of intellectual property rights and the most common forms of tax measures to incentivize innovation and conducts a comparative analysis between the policies adopted by the US and the European Union. The first part of the paper will focus on intellectual property rights (or IP rights), building a framework for drawing a more thorough analysis of the interaction between these rights and tax policy. Indeed, when tax policy instruments are used for purposes that differ from revenue-raising and wealth-redistribution, several criticalities arise, and a deep investigation becomes necessary to understand whether the objectives are pursued without hampering the status quo. The system should be looked at as a whole and several considerations should be conducted to understand whether there might be different ways to reach the same objectives more efficiently and without affecting the neutrality of the tax system. All in all, the proposed policy should be coherent with its objectives and avoid undesired effects. The most common ways to incentivize innovation through the tax system are R&D tax credits and IP Box Regimes. This work will provide an analysis of these different innovation-oriented tax measures. The evaluation will lead to considering expenses-based tax incentives, in the form of R&D tax credits, as a better complement to IP rights in incentivizing innovation, as opposed to IP Box Regimes, whose scope somewhat overlaps with IP rights. The last part of the analysis will compare the context and the legal framework of the European Union and the United States. In comparing those two different ways of achieving the same objective, it will formulate specific considerations on the different nature of the tax policies, emphasizing potential causes and consequences of different choices. Consequently, the paper will highlight the conclusions of the analysis.

Keywords: Intellectual Property, Tax incentives, Innovation, United States, European Union

Suggested Citation:

Rizzo, Amedeo, Intellectual Property and Tax Incentives: a Comparative Analysis of the E.U. and the U.S. Legal Frameworks (September 1, 2023). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2023, TTLF Working Papers No. 101, Stanford-Vienna Transatlantic Technology Law Forum 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4420153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4420153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
235,061
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies