Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Economic Regulation: Contributions to a Regulatory Impact Analysis Model of Inductive Tax Rules

Revista de Direito Administrativo - RDA. Administrative Law Review, Rio de Janeiro, v. 281, n. 2, p. 175-202, May./Aug. 2022.

28 Pages Posted: 4 May 2023

Luiz Felipe Monteiro Seixas

Universidade Federal de Pernambuco - Faculdade de Direito do Recife

Date Written: August 2022

Abstract

Based on contemporary discussions related to the role of taxation as an instrument of economic regulation, as well as the current experiences of good regulatory practices in Brazil, this work proposes to examine whether it is possible to develop or adapt a Brazilian model of Regulatory Impact Analysis of inducing tax rules. Through an interdisciplinary study, with an emphasis on qualitative research (bibliographical, documentary and legislative), being presented the main concepts, fundamentals and discussions related to regulatory tax rules and Regulatory Impact Analysis, in order to support the debate and examining the feasibility of a specific Regulatory Impact Analysis model for regulatory taxation in Brazil.

Keywords: Regulatory tax rules, Regulatory impact analysis, Regulatory taxation, Economic regulation, Regulation by taxation

JEL Classification: K20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Monteiro Seixas, Luiz Felipe, Taxation and Economic Regulation: Contributions to a Regulatory Impact Analysis Model of Inductive Tax Rules (August 2022). Revista de Direito Administrativo - RDA. Administrative Law Review, Rio de Janeiro, v. 281, n. 2, p. 175-202, May./Aug. 2022., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
349
RANK
856,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies