Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crossing the Atlantic: The Role of U.S. Executives in Tax Planning of Foreign Subsidiaries

46 Pages Posted: 1 May 2023

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: April 27, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates to what extent U.S. multinational corporations’ (MNCs) executives affect the tax planning of their foreign subsidiaries. Our results show that parent executives (CEOs and CFOs) do not affect foreign subsidiaries’ tax planning (profit shifting and effective tax rates). Instead, subsidiaries' tax planning is largely explained by time-invariant subsidiary characteristics, and partly by local subsidiary executives when subsidiary managers have more incentives and opportunities to engage in tax planning. Our study sheds new light on the role of executives in international tax planning decisions and contributes to the literature by documenting that tax planning in non-tax haven subsidiaries is shaped by subsidiaries’ characteristics and local management rather than parent executives.

Keywords: executives, fixed effects, multinational corporations, tax avoidance, subsidiaries

JEL Classification: H26, M12

Suggested Citation:

Osswald, Benjamin and Pierk, Jochen, Crossing the Atlantic: The Role of U.S. Executives in Tax Planning of Foreign Subsidiaries (April 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4431937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4431937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
487,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies