Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Deferred Tax on Value Relevance, Earning Management, and Company Profitability of the Financial and Automobile Sector of Pakistan

22 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023

Areeba Amir

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: April 28, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore the effect of deferred tax on value relevance, earning management, and a company’s profitability in the automobile sector and financial sector of Pakistan firms, listed firms in the Pakistan stock exchange (PSX). This research analyzes profitability and earnings management through deferred tax calculated under the IAS 12 or international financial reporting standards and its impact on firm valuation. This paper focuses on listed companies of the Automobile and Financial sector, especially firms that are recorded in PSX 100, for ten years of data from 2012 to 2021 for twenty-five (25) companies; fifteen (15) companies from the financial sector and ten (10) companies of automobile sector. We analyze that in the balance sheet, deferred tax line items are reflected in market prices. We aim to answer the following questions. The first question is about the impact of deferred tax on earning management, the second question is the impact of deferred tax on profitability, the third question is about the value relevance of earnings management, the fourth question is about value relevance of profitability, the fifth question is about the value relevance of deferred tax. The study found that there is an insignificant impact of deferred tax on value relevance in the automobile sector and mediator; earning management which is calculated by the jones model and profitability indicator net profit margin shows an insignificant relationship between deferred tax and value relevance. Financial sector finding shows the significant impact of deferred tax and earning management and profitability indicating a moderate relationship between deferred tax and value relevance. The study finds that nonconformity book tax leads to better earning quality and a greater association between earnings management and future expected activities. The findings suggested that management manipulates earnings through deferred tax because higher deferred tax amounts result in more aggressive earnings management practices; there is no value relevance for earnings management, indicating that investors are not affected by this practice, indicating that these practices do not influence the decisions of investors to lessen how these actions affect how well businesses execute. This finding demonstrates that deferred tax information either deferred tax liabilities or net deferred tax assets are one of several factors that determine how investors choose to allocate their capital. It also demonstrates that shareholders' or investors' preferences are influenced by deferred tax information. Although deferred tax has a direct value relevance as mentioned in the third goal, the results show no value relevance of deferred tax through profits management methods as a mediator variable. Since investors are not interested in these techniques when making investment decisions, there is no indirect value significance of deferred tax through profits management practices

Keywords: Deferred Tax, Earning Management, Modified Jones Model, Profitability, Net Profit Margin, Value Relevance, Earning Per Share, and Market Value Per Share

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Areeba and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, The Impact of Deferred Tax on Value Relevance, Earning Management, and Company Profitability of the Financial and Automobile Sector of Pakistan (April 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4432252 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4432252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
232,542
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies