Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Thinking on Tax and the Digitalization of Business 1996-2018

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 2 ; p. 145-204

Posted: 1 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Jun 2023

Richard Collier

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: March 21, 2023

Abstract

This article surveys the evolution of the discussion on tax and digitalization between 1996 and 2018, analysing the shifts in thinking over this period and their impact going forward. Particular attention is given to four themes that emerge in this discussion. These are the changes in thinking on: the conceptual basis for the allocation of taxing rights; suitability concerns about the existing international tax rules; concerns about international tax avoidance; and concerns about tax competition between states. The impact of the increasing importance of developing countries on the digitalization debate is also considered. What emerges from the analysis is that there have been significant shifts in how the tax issues raised by digitalization have been framed and addressed by the OECD and the delegate states involved in the process. The chief consequence of the approach adopted is that there has never been a completely clear and consensus-based analysis of the problem (or problems) for which a solution is sought, which also includes the rationale and objectives of any required response. This goes a long way towards explaining the diverse (and, arguably, contradictory) threads that are combined in the two-pillar approach currently pursued.

Full text paper

Keywords: digital economy, e-commerce, allocation of taxing rights, international taxation, tax avoidance, tax competition, developing countries, BEPS Project (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), transfer pricing, allocation of profits, tax treaty, VAT

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Collier, Richard, The Evolution of Thinking on Tax and the Digitalization of Business 1996-2018 (March 21, 2023). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 2 ; p. 145-204 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4433933
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies