Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Tax-Free”: The Effect of a Heuristic Cue on the Choice Between a TFSA and an RRSP

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2023, Vol. 71, No. 1, p. 1-32

32 Pages Posted: 17 May 2023

Leslie Berger

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Jonathan Farrar

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Ruth Pogacar

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Lu Y. Zhang

Toronto Metropolitan University

Date Written: May 2, 2023

Abstract

The authors investigate whether and, if so, the extent to which a heuristic cue, the term “tax-free,” contained in the name of one of the two primary tax-sheltered savings plans in Canada—the tax free savings account (TFSA)—biases individuals’ saving preferences relative to the registered retirement savings plan. On the basis of the heuristic-systematic model of information processing, the authors predict that the term “tax-free” is a favourable heuristic cue that will suppress systematic processing and bias individuals toward selecting a savings plan with this term in its name. They conduct three experiments to test this proposition. Overall, the results suggest that individuals have a clear preference for a tax-sheltered savings plan with “tax-free” in its name—regardless of the content of accompanying explanatory information. The preference for savings plans with “tax-free” in the name may suggest the need for more education and financial advice to reduce the use of heuristics.

Keywords: TFSA, RRSP, Savings, Savings Plans, Psychological Aspects, Public Finance

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Leslie and Farrar, Jonathan and Pogacar, Ruth and Zhang, Lu, “Tax-Free”: The Effect of a Heuristic Cue on the Choice Between a TFSA and an RRSP (May 2, 2023). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, 2023, Vol. 71, No. 1, p. 1-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4435811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
RANK
736,113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies