Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cooperative Versus Adversarial Tax Audits: Implications of Transparency for Tax Compliance and Financial Reporting Quality

54 Pages Posted: 14 May 2023

Jillian R. Adams

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether voluntary, cooperative tax audits are associated with incrementally greater corporate tax compliance and positive spillover to financial reporting quality relative to enforced, adversarial tax audits. Extant literature lacks a direct comparison of these options, which both involve audit certainty. To address the gap, we compile a unique sample of U.S. data and explicitly model the endogeneity of joining a cooperative IRS program. Consistent with expectations, we document incrementally higher effective tax rates (compared to benchmark firms) and lower likelihood of restatement for firms in the cooperative, CAP program than firms in the adversarial, CIC program, controlling for inherent characteristics. Additional stakeholder benefits of cooperative audits include lower tax risk and more effective tax planning. Overall, our research has important implications for allocating tax authority resources to cooperative or adversarial audits, the governance role of tax audits, and externalities that can arise from programs that encourage corporate transparency.

Keywords: cooperative compliance; financial reporting quality; IRS audit; tax enforcement; transparency

JEL Classification: G3, H26, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Jillian R. and Bauer, Andrew M., Cooperative Versus Adversarial Tax Audits: Implications of Transparency for Tax Compliance and Financial Reporting Quality (April 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4436316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4436316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
760
RANK
420,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies