Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impeded Knowledge Sharing between Auditors and Tax Professionals and Audit Outcomes

58 Pages Posted: 14 May 2023 Last revised: 9 Jan 2025

Bo Gao

University of Texas at El Paso

Date Written: May 3, 2023

Abstract

Prior studies suggest that knowledge sharing between auditors and tax professionals is one mechanism through which auditor-provided tax service (APTS) favorably affects audit quality. While different priorities of auditors and tax professionals can impede knowledge sharing, the benefits could be situationally limited. This study demonstrates that impeded knowledge sharing between audit and tax professionals is more likely to occur in the offices where tax professionals prioritize pursuing APTS opportunities, and clients of these offices are more likely to have tax-related misstatements. The unfavorable influence of knowledge-sharing impediments is more pronounced when auditors are distracted from using the shared knowledge, auditors get less and less readable tax-related information from their clients, and clients have tax-related internal control weaknesses. I also find knowledge-sharing impediments appear to affect clients’ decisions to keep purchasing APTS in the subsequent period. A path analysis suggests that the influenced tax-related audit quality is part of the reason.

Keywords: knowledge sharing, auditor-provided tax services, tax-related audit outcomes JEL classifications: M41

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Bo, Impeded Knowledge Sharing between Auditors and Tax Professionals and Audit Outcomes (May 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4437453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia
Does the Culture of the Largest Audit Firms Influence Their Audit Quality and Efficiency? Working paper Posted: 2017
Z Axelton , J Gramlich , M K Harris
How Do Auditors Learn to Forecast? Evidence from the Predictive Power of the Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance. Working paper Posted: 2019
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
RANK
580,215
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies