Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do We Know about Tax Treaties and How Can Accounting Research Contribute?

West, Ashley N. and Wilkinson, Brett; What Do We Know About Tax Treaties and How Can Accounting Research Contribute? Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 22 May 2023

Ashley West

Kansas State University

Brett R. Wilkinson

Baylor University - Department of Accounting & Business Law

Date Written: May 9, 2023

Abstract

Bilateral tax treaties are an integral part of the international tax system. Despite this, the accounting literature on tax treaties is almost non-existent, with the majority of the research being done in the public finance and tax law research fields. The goal of this paper is to spur an interest among accounting and tax researchers to engage with this literature. In this paper, we suggest that there are several areas in which accounting researchers are well positioned to contribute to the tax treaty literature. We survey the existing tax treaty literature in accounting, public finance, and tax law, and we identify new opportunities for accounting researchers. These opportunities span a broad range of research methods including archival, behavioral and experimental, interpretive, and tax legal research. Perhaps most importantly, we suggest that the contributions that accounting researchers can make to the tax treaty literature may have meaningful impacts not only on the academic world but also on tax policy making and practice.

Suggested Citation:

West, Ashley and Wilkinson, Brett R., What Do We Know about Tax Treaties and How Can Accounting Research Contribute? (May 9, 2023). West, Ashley N. and Wilkinson, Brett; What Do We Know About Tax Treaties and How Can Accounting Research Contribute? Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4443672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4443672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
B J Arnold
The Interpretation of tax treaties: Looking to the future
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 75 , issue 11/12 , p. 665 - 672 Posted: 2021
B J Arnold
The Interpretation of tax treaties: Myth and reality
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 15 Posted: 2010
H Ashiabor
Missing Africa: Should US international tax rules accommodate investment in developing countries
University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Economics and Law , volume 23 , p. 45 - 83 Posted: 1996
Avery Jones , J F Berg , C J Depret , H Ellis , M J Fontaneau , P Lenz , R Miyatke , T Roberts , S I Sandels , C Strobl , J
The interpretation of tax treaties with particular reference to Article 3(2) of the OECD model
British Tax Review , issue 1 , p. 14 - 54 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
467,335
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies