Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayers’ Data Protection: Do International, Regional, and Domestic Instruments Guarantee Adequate Rights in Tax (A)EoI?

Intertax, Volume 50, Issue 2 (2022), pp. 138 – 158

21 Pages Posted: 24 May 2023

Belisa Ferreira Liotti

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: February 2022

Abstract

In this article, the author analyses whether existing international instruments - OECD, regional regulations - EU, and domestic data protection laws - Brazil, effectively safeguard taxpayers’ rights to data protection, particularly in automatic exchange of information procedures.

Ongoing developments in terms of internalization and digitalization of the economy have resulted in an ever-developing worldwide shift towards a data-driven socioeconomic model whereby personal data has become one of the most valuable assets. The tax environment has not gone unscathed. As relevant sources and users of data, governments are increasingly exploiting technologies in pursuit of greater revenue collection and tax audits for which many measures have been adopted internationally, regionally, and nationally to strengthen tax cooperation and enhance international tax exchange of information (EoI) among jurisdictions. A remarkable outcome is the new standard of automated processing and transfer of bulks of taxpayers’ data that, albeit desired by tax administrations, inherently raises concerns over the risks of violation of data protection rights. In this article, the author analyses whether existing international instruments (OECD), regional regulations (EU), and domestic data protection laws (Brazil) effectively safeguard taxpayers’ rights to data protection, particularly in (A)EoI procedures. Building upon the findings of this analysis, the author concludes that an adequate and satisfactory level of protection has not yet been implemented globally and proposes a temporary solution for the issue in the absence of specific instruments dealing with taxpayers’ data protection in (A)EoI procedures.

Note: Reprinted from INTERTAX, Volume 50, Issue 2, February 2022, pages 138-158, with permission of Kluwer Law International.

Keywords: Exchange of Information, Automatic Exchange of Information, Data Protection, EU GDPR, Brazilian LGPD, Convention 108, Taxpayers Right

Suggested Citation:

Liotti, Belisa, Taxpayers’ Data Protection: Do International, Regional, and Domestic Instruments Guarantee Adequate Rights in Tax (A)EoI? (February 2022). Intertax, Volume 50, Issue 2 (2022), pp. 138 – 158, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4444541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Brazil Peer Review 2, supra n. 52, para. 327. Valderrama et al., supra n. 32, at 17 bring other exceptions to disclosure
As recognized in Brazil Peer Review 1, supra n. 43, para
Brazil Peer Review 2, supra n. 52, para. 330 and BR: FN 29 showing the Brazilian Supreme Federal Court position when interpreting Art
The regulation was made in a sparse and non-specific manner through, e.g., the Civil Code, Consumer Protection Code, and Civil Rights Framework for the Internet. See A. Erickson, Comparative Analysis of the EU's GDPR and Brazil's LGPD: Enforcement Challenges with the LGPD
Brook. J. Int'l L , volume 44 , p. 872 - 874 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
610
RANK
487,221
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies