Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings Management: A Research Agenda

Forthcoming in the Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

65 Pages Posted: 13 May 2023

Stylianos Floropoulos

Business Division, Department of Economics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124, Thessaloniki, Greece

Maria Tsipouridou

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Department of Economics

Charalambos Spathis

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 11, 2023

Abstract

We conduct a literature review of 60 studies on the impact of book-tax conformity on earnings management. We review this relationship in public firms, and then in public versus private firms. We also review external factors that may affect this relationship, such as accounting standards changes/IFRS adoption, tax law changes, tax enforcement, and external audits. Finally, we review the studies on book-tax conformity and earnings attributes. The results are inconclusive as to whether high book-tax conformity improves earnings management. We find that private firms manage earnings and taxes to a greater extent than public firms when book-tax conformity is strong and that IFRS adoption is not enough to reduce earnings management and increase tax compliance. Firms use negative discretionary accruals before tax rate reductions to achieve their tax planning goals. Finally, tax authority enforcement strengthens financial reporting quality and decreases tax avoidance, whereas stronger book-tax conformity reduces the information content and timeliness of accounting earnings. Based on the above review, we provide suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Book-tax conformity, earnings management, firm ownership, IFRS, tax law changes, enforcement

JEL Classification: H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Floropoulos, Stylianos and Tsipouridou, Maria and Spathis, Charalambos, Book-Tax Conformity and Earnings Management: A Research Agenda (May 11, 2023). Forthcoming in the Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4445012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Guilherme O M Guimarães , Marcelo Alvaro Macedo
Book-Tax Conformity: The Moderating Effect of Aggressive Management Practices on Earnings Persistence
JIAAT-D-24-00051 · 32 Pages · Posted: 14 May 2024 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Congyue Xu , Xianwei Liu , Meini Han
Does Integrity Culture Reduce Tax Avoidance? Evidence from China
JIAAT-D-24-00202 · 24 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
276,301
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies