Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Potential of Central Bank Digital Currency for Transforming Public Finance: A Focus on VAT Systems

67 Pages Posted: 21 May 2023 Last revised: 23 May 2023

Michi Kakebayashi

University of California, Berkeley

Date Written: May 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper explores the potential benefits of Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) for public finance, focusing specifically on its use in the Value Added Tax (VAT) system. With low adoption rates in jurisdictions that have launched retail CBDC, questions have arisen about the actual solutions that CBDC provides. The paper examines the potential of a retail CBDC to streamline and automate the transaction, record-keeping, filing, tax payment, refund processes, and auditing reducing compliance and administration costs for businesses, government, and financial institutions. While e-invoicing and e-payment may also achieve similar outcomes, the success of such alternatives would depend heavily on the financial institutions. The paper concludes that CBDC can address challenges faced by the VAT system while preserving simplicity, fairness, and effectiveness. Additionally, the paper also suggests that CBDC could usher in transformative changes in public finance as a whole, but adoption and design should not be solely determined by their potential impact on the tax system.

Keywords: Central Bank Digital Currency, CBDC, Compliance costs, Administrative cost, Tax, Value Added Tax, VAT

JEL Classification: E21, E58, G28, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kakebayashi, Michi, The Potential of Central Bank Digital Currency for Transforming Public Finance: A Focus on VAT Systems (May 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4449562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4449562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Maarten A Allers
Administrative and Compliance Costs of Taxation and Public Transfers in the Netherlands Posted: 1994
The Association of Banks in Singapore
Posted: 2023-04-29
Atlantic Council
Central Bank Digital Currency Tracker Posted: 2022
Raphael Auer , Rainer Böhme
The technology of retail central bank digital currency
BIS Quarterly Review Posted: 2020-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
222,076
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies