Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Delegation of Decision Rights and After-Tax Effectiveness

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4473848

62 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 24, 2024

Abstract

Despite the importance of internal decision-making for corporate outcomes, we know little about the role of within-firm delegation of decision rights. We use confidential survey data to examine how the extent to which four types of decisions (capital investments, employee hiring, new product introduction, and sales/marketing) are delegated from central headquarters to local managers relates to corporate after-tax effectiveness. Greater delegation of capital investment decisions is negatively related to after-tax effectiveness, suggesting that capital acquisition and location decisions are more likely to benefit from central headquarters' coordination. In contrast, greater delegation of hiring decisions is positively associated with after-tax effectiveness, consistent with net benefits from leveraging superior local human capital information. Crosssectional tests reveal that the benefits of greater delegation are lower (higher) when internal information frictions are lower (localized knowledge is expected to be valuable). Our findings provide initial evidence on how the extent of within-firm decision rights delegation is associated with firms' after-tax effectiveness.

Keywords: decision rights delegation, after-tax effectiveness

Suggested Citation:

Koester, Allison and Xia, Junwei, Corporate Delegation of Decision Rights and After-Tax Effectiveness (June 24, 2024). Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4473848, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4473848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4473848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
J R Adams , A M Bauer
Cooperative versus adversarial tax audits: Implications of transparency for tax compliance and financial reporting quality Posted: 2023
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and Real Authority in Organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
D Aobdia , A Koester , R Petacchi
The politics of government resource allocation: Evidence from U.S. state government awarded economic incentives Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
781
RANK
541,990
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies