Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did State Tax Policy Influence State-Level COVID-19 Restrictions?

37 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2023 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Luke Watson

Villanova University

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

During the COVID-19 pandemic, states grappled with the question of whether and to what extent to impose restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. We investigate whether state reliance on sales tax revenue, relative to other tax revenue sources, is associated with shorter durations of COVID-19 pandemic state mobility restrictions. We find that sales tax reliance is associated with states imposing shorter durations of stay-home orders, restaurant closures, bar closures, and movie theater closures. Meanwhile, falsification tests in non-taxable settings of elective medical procedures and prison visits yield no association with sales tax reliance. We control for state political preferences in our main tests and partition on state political preferences in a subsequent analysis, detecting evidence of a negative association between sales tax reliance and duration of stay-home orders and restaurant closures in both Democrat- and Republican-leaning states. Finally, we find evidence that European nations’ reliance on consumption taxes was negatively associated with the duration of national stay-home orders. Our study suggests that perceptions of sales tax revenue shortfalls may have influenced states’ COVID-19 responses. These findings provide far-reaching evidence of the role of financial policies in society and, in particular, the “real effects” of state tax policy on state public health policy.

Keywords: state tax, sales tax, COVID-19 restrictions

JEL Classification: H71, H75, H83, I18, I38

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Lusch, Stephen J. and Watson, Luke, Did State Tax Policy Influence State-Level COVID-19 Restrictions? (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4473760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4473760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
C Adolph , K Amano , B Bang-Jensen , N Fullman , J Wilkerson
Pandemic Politics: Timing State-Level Social Distancing Responses to COVID-19
Journal of Health , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 211 - 233 Posted: 2021
D R Agrawal , I Shybalkina
Online Shopping Can Redistribute Local Tax Revenue from Urban to Rural America
Journal of Public Economics , volume 219 Posted: 2023
A Aladangady , D Cho , L Feiveson , E Pinto
Excess savings during the COVID-19 Pandemic. FEDS Notes. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Posted: 2022-10-21
L Baccini , A Brodeur
Explaining Governors' Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic in the United States
American Politics Research , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 220 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
682,707
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies