Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Athletic Performance: Why NBA Players Perform Better in Low-Tax States

Michael Conklin, Taxes and Athletic Performance: Why NBA Players Perform Better in Low-Tax States, 24 HOUS. BUS. & TAX L. J. 185 (2025).

22 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2023 Last revised: 9 Aug 2025

Michael Conklin

Texas A&M University School of Law

Jordan Daniel

Angelo State University

Date Written: June 01, 2024

Abstract

Game locations can make a significant difference on a player’s after-tax earnings. And under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, this disparity has increased. Extensive research exists regarding state tax rates and professional athletes. These studies conclusively show that athletes consider state tax rates when considering which team to join; that teams in high-tax states are therefore at a disadvantage in acquiring talent; and that because of this disadvantage, these high-tax teams underperform when compared to teams in low- and no-tax states. However, no study has been conducted to measure how the various different state tax rates experienced by professional athletes in their away games affect athletic performance. This first-of-its kind study fills this gap in the research by finding that NBA players averaged significantly higher free-throw percentages in away games at no-tax states compared to high-tax states.

This finding provides empirical support for numerous topics that were previously discussed only theoretically. This invites future research into areas such as the far-reaching implications of tax policy, significance of sports psychologists, the importance of addressing mental states in athletes external to their past athletic performance, and the importance of team cohesion. Furthermore, the effects of mental states are likely applicable to the corporate world as well. Therefore, this study invites future research into how mental states in general and state tax rates specifically might affect workplace performance, including collegiality, risk adverseness, discriminatory behaviors, and ethical corporate conduct. These issues are of increased importance in modern corporate America, where the ability of workers to telecommute is rapidly increasing.

Keywords: Sports psychology, jock tax, taxation, athletic performance, state tax rates

Suggested Citation:

Conklin, Michael and Daniel, Jordan, Taxes and Athletic Performance: Why NBA Players Perform Better in Low-Tax States (June 01, 2024). Michael Conklin, Taxes and Athletic Performance: Why NBA Players Perform Better in Low-Tax States, 24 HOUS. BUS. & TAX L. J. 185 (2025)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4474724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4474724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
The states with no income tax are Alaska
Thomas Heath , & Albert , B Crenshaw
Professional Sports, States Often Claim Players , volume 18 Posted: 2003-02-24
Note that while there is an unequal number of high-tax and no-tax teams, this is irrelevant, as this methodology only requires the comparison of the average free-throw performance between the two groups and not a direct comparison of any one team to another
Walczak
The Jets deal was 'very close to happening,' but 'those state taxes, man. I had to make a grown-up decision
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
582
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,201
RANK
107,325
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies