Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Firm Value: Does Qualitative Disclosure in the Tax Footnote Matter?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2023

Le Luo

School of Accountancy, Central University of Finance and Economics

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Hong Xie

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 6, 2023

Abstract

This study examines whether qualitative disclosure in tax footnotes affects the market valuation of tax avoidance activities. We predict that more disclosures in tax footnotes mitigate investors’ concerns over the agency risk of managers engaging in potentially illegal tax avoidance and improve the transparency of firm performance, thus increasing firm valuation. Consistent with the prediction, we find that the market valuation of tax avoidance increases when firms’ tax footnotes disclose more qualitative information related to their tax avoidance activities. We provide several tests to show mechanisms underlying our main findings and mitigate concerns about alternative explanations. Overall, our study suggests that the tax-related disclosures in tax footnotes are useful for investors assessing the value of tax avoidance.

Keywords: Agency costs, Information asymmetry, Tax avoidance, Tax footnotes, Firm value

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Le and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Omer, Thomas C. and Xie, Hong, Tax Avoidance and Firm Value: Does Qualitative Disclosure in the Tax Footnote Matter? (May 6, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
O E Barron , D Byard , C Kile , E J Riedl
High-technology intangibles and analysts' forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
B S Blaylock
Is tax avoidance associated with economically significant rent extraction among U.S. firms?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 1013 - 1043 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
RANK
379,264
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies