Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Landscape of Tax Audits and Investigations

Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, Vol. 5, No. 2, April-May 2003

Posted: 19 Sep 2003 Last revised: 13 Nov 2015

Bryan C. Skarlatos

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP; New York University School of Law

Abstract

How could a terrorist attack affect tax audits and investigations? For the most part, there is no direct connection between terrorism and taxes. However, there is a connection between taxes and financial transactions, and a similar connection between financial transactions and terrorism. Terrorism, by its very nature, is based on surprise and unpredictability. In the aftermath of September 11, governmental investigators have learned that, aside from monitoring the movements and communications of suspected terrorists, one of the most effective ways to track and anticipate terrorist activity is to monitor financial transactions for signs of unusual or suspicious flows of money. In this article, the author looks at how the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks have increased the level of attention to financial transactions, thereby leading government agents to find tax evasion schemes.

Suggested Citation:

Skarlatos, Bryan C., The Changing Landscape of Tax Audits and Investigations. Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, Vol. 5, No. 2, April-May 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=448020
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies