Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geographic Location and Corporate Tax Planning

41 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Hui L. James

University of Texas at Tyler

Hongxia Wang

Coastal Carolina University

Chialing Hsieh

University of Texas at Tyler

Date Written: June 16, 2023

Abstract

We examine the impact of corporate geographic location on tax planning in U.S. firms from 1996–2018. We find that urban firms are associated with a significantly lower level of aggressive tax planning than rural firms. Further analysis shows that the soft information advantage to investors and various monitoring agents on urban firms is vital in curbing aggressive corporate tax practices. The results suggest that geographic proximity to urban areas increases the accessibility of informal information, which facilitates monitoring efficiency and reduces controversial behaviors in urban firms. The results remain robust after controlling for potential biases attributable to variable definition, model specification, and endogeneity.

Keywords: Geographic location, Urban firms, Information advantage, Tax planning

JEL Classification: G30, G39

Suggested Citation:

James, Hui L. and Wang, Hongxia and Hsieh, Chialing, Geographic Location and Corporate Tax Planning (June 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4481311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4481311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
A Alesina , E L Ferrara
Participation in heterogeneous communities
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 847 - 904 Posted: 2000
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
M P Arena , B Wang , R Yang
Securities litigation and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
665
RANK
663,174
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies