Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Information Communication Technology Unlock Tax Revenue Mobilization in Sub Saharan Africa

DBN Journal of Economics and Sustainable Growth. Vol. 5 (3), pp. 1-27, 2023

27 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2023

Abdulfatai Adedeji

Centre for the Study of the Economics of Africa; University of Ibadan

Omolola Lipede

University of Ibadan - Department of Economics

Date Written: June 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of ICT on tax revenue mobilisation in 23 sub-Saharan African
countries between 2000 and 2020. To address our objectives, it utilises a feasible generalised least
squares approach that accounts for both heteroscedasticity and autocorrelation challenges.
Particularly, six measures of ICT (import of ICT goods, export of ICT goods, ICT trade, internet
penetration, mobile phone penetration, and aggregate ICT index) and six tax measures (total tax,
direct tax, indirect tax, taxes on income, profit, and capital gains, taxes on goods and services, and
taxes on international trade) are explored in the study. The scatterplot result shows that several
countries are characterised by low levels of ICT development and tax revenue mobilisation. From
the FGLS estimation, the findings reveal that the import of ICT goods facilitates tax revenue
mobilisation, while the export of ICT goods undermines tax revenue collection. However, the
overall ICT trade supports tax revenue mobilisation. Additionally, the levels of internet and mobile
phone penetrations promote the mobilisation of tax revenue. At the disaggregated level, while
importation of ICT goods inadequately enhances direct tax revenue, export of ICT goods has a
drag effect on direct tax revenue mobilisation. More so, internet and mobile penetrations majorly
amplify direct tax revenue mobilisation in the region. Similarly, the aggregate ICT index promotes
direct tax revenue mobilisation. Further evidence reveals that importation of ICT goods, internet
and phone penetrations, and the aggregate ICT index magnify mobilisation of tax revenue, whereas
exportation of ICT goods and ICT trade inhibit indirect tax revenue mobilisation. On the
components of taxes, export of ICT goods, import of ICT goods, and ICT trade are TIPC-retarding,
while internet and mobile phone subscriptions enhance both taxes on income, profit and capital
gains, as well as taxes on goods and services. From the findings, policies promoting the expansion
of ICT infrastructure are urgently needed to boost revenue collection in the region.

Keywords: Mobile phone penetration, Internet penetration, ICT, Tax, SSA

JEL Classification: H2, O30

Suggested Citation:

Adedeji, Abdulfatai and Lipede, Omolola, Can Information Communication Technology Unlock Tax Revenue Mobilization in Sub Saharan Africa (June 22, 2023). DBN Journal of Economics and Sustainable Growth. Vol. 5 (3), pp. 1-27, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4488553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
379,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Other Economics Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies