Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
WHY DO PEOPLE EVADE TAXES? Summaries of 90 Surveys

185 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2023

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 27, 2023

Abstract

Various World Values Surveys have solicited the views on tens of thousands of people regarding their views on the ethics of tax evasion. Numerous studies citing these surveys have been published. However, those surveys only gathered information about their attitudes toward justifying tax evasion. The surveys did not ask participants the reasons for their answers, leaving readers to guess what their reasons might be. The present study aims to partially fill that gap in the tax evasion literature. This paper summarizes the results of 90 surveys that solicited the opinions of many people in different countries on their views of the justifiability of tax evasion. The survey instrument consisted of (usually) 18 statements that began with the phrase, “Tax evasion is ethical if …”. Participants were asked to select a number from 1 to 7 to indicate the extent of their agreement with each statement, where 1 = strongly agree and 7 = strongly disagree. The results of these studies have policy implications. If the goal is to reduce the extent of tax evasion, it is necessary to address the root causes of tax evasion. If people evade taxes because the government engages in human rights abuses, governments must make an effort to reduce (or preferably eliminate) human rights abuses. If people evade taxes because tax rates are too high, efforts must be made to reduce tax rates. If people evade taxes because of the perception that they are not receiving much in benefits from their tax payments, governments need to increase the benefit-to-cost ratio. If people evade taxes because they view their government as corrupt or inefficient, governments must make an attempt to become more efficient and less corrupt.

Keywords: ethics, tax evasion, tax morale, survey

JEL Classification: E26, H26, O17

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., WHY DO PEOPLE EVADE TAXES? Summaries of 90 Surveys (June 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4493454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4493454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
468 References
Tax evasion is ethical even if it means that if I pay less, others will have to pay more
Tax evasion would be ethical if I were a Jew living in Nazi Germany in 1935
Tax evasion is ethical if the government imprisons people for their political opinions
ARGENTINA , volume 25
R W Mcgee , M J Rossi , Robert W Mcgee , Ed
A Survey of Argentina on the Ethics of Tax Evasion
Taxation and Public Finance in Transition and Developing Economies , p. 239 - 261 Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Ioana Maria Costea , Despina-Martha Ilucă , Maria-Eliza Galan
Tax Control Between Legality and Motivation: A Case Study on Romanian Legislation
Laws , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 34 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Robert W. McGee
Religion and Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study
McGee, Robert W. & Shopovski, Jovan (Eds.); The Ethics of Tax Evasion: New Perspectives in Theory and Practice. Switzerland: Springer and McGee, Robert W. & Shopovski, Jovan (Eds.); The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Country Studies. Switzerland: Springer, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee
Studies in Tax Evasion: A Bibliography
70 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
373,668
3 Citations
468 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies