Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do All Agnostics and Atheists Think the Same Way about Tax Evasion? A 78-Country Study

17 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2023

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Monica Violeta Achim

Babes-Bolyai University, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Gabriela-Mihaela Muresan

Babes Bolyai University

Date Written: June 28, 2023

Abstract

The present study is part of a much larger study on the ethics of tax evasion and bribery. Part of the larger study examines the way various religions view tax evasion. In the present study, World Values Survey data were used to determine whether atheists and agnostics in 78 countries held similar views on the ethics of tax evasion. The study found that they did not. Atheist and agnostic respondents in Tunisia were most strongly opposed to tax evasion. Those in Japan, Myanmar, China, Germany, Peru, Hungary, Morocco, Singapore and Denmark rounded out the top ten in terms of strong opposition to tax evasion. Those in Tajikistan were least opposed. The other nine countries showing the least opposition to tax evasion were Kenya, Russia, Belarus, Malaysia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Slovakia and Brazil.

Keywords: ethics, tax evasion, ranking, religion, Agnostic, Atheist

JEL Classification: E26, H26, O17, Z12

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Achim, Monica Violeta and Muresan, Gabriela-Mihaela, Do All Agnostics and Atheists Think the Same Way about Tax Evasion? A 78-Country Study (June 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4494781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4494781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
M V Achim
The Effect of CEO's Attributes and Zakat on the Performance of Islamic Banks: A Short Commentary
Ethics and Public Policy , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 636 Posted: 2022
M V Achim , R W Mcgee
Financial Crime in Romania: A Community Pulse Survey Posted: 2023
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez , B Torgler
Russian attitudes toward paying taxesbefore, during, and after the transition
International Journal of Social Economics , volume 33 , issue 12 , p. 832 - 857 Posted: 2006
M Bolek , R W Mcgee , J Shopovski , R W Mcgee , J Shopovski
Buddhist Attitudes toward Tax Evasion
New Perspectives in Theory and Practice , volume 2 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
623,124
7 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies