Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commensurate With Income: IRS Nonenforcement Has Cost $1 Trillion

TAX NOTES FEDERAL, VOLUME 179, MAY 22, 2023

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-035

34 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023 Last revised: 31 Aug 2023

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

David G. Chamberlain

California State Polytechnic University, San Luis Obispo

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

This paper summarizes and updates research that began in 2020 and was subsequently published in the online tax journal Tax Notes, comprising studies of the compliance posture of six major U.S. corporations with the “Commensurate with Income” (CWI) statute of the U.S. tax code. This law, enacted by Congress in 1986, applies to transfers of intellectual property (IP) by U.S. corporations to their foreign affiliates and allows the IRS to make “periodic adjustments” that increase U.S. income in years after the transfer. These “periodic adjustments” can be triggered because the original transfer price was too low or because the income recorded by the foreign transferee in years following the transfer was too high.

The CWI statute was implemented into the cost sharing regulations via a “periodic adjustments” mechanism in 2009, which allows the IRS to increase the U.S. taxable income of the U.S. cost sharing participant related to an IP transfer via a cost sharing arrangement if the foreign transferee’s profits from using the IP exceed a limitation established by the regulation. This limitation is roughly that the foreign transferee’s cumulative return on the sum of its payments for transferred IP, certain other contributions, and its allocable share of cost-shared research and development expenses does not exceed 150%.

These six studies found that each of these major U.S. corporate taxpayers had cost sharing arrangements that violated the cost sharing periodic adjustments regulation, and cumulatively could owe as much $500 billion in taxes, penalties and interest to the U.S. Treasury. Yet by all accounts the IRS has never enforced this regulation.

This paper investigates possible reasons for this apparent IRS non-enforcement, and also reviews recent developments in a United States Tax Court case involving Facebook, one of the six U.S. corporations profiled in this research. In that case, Facebook submitted its internal periodic adjustments calculations to the court, possibly as a direct result of our 2020 published research. This court submission enabled a comparison between our published estimates of the Facebook’s periodic adjustments based on book financial reporting, and Facebook’s own internal calculations using its proprietary tax accounting information. The estimated results accurately predicted the actual results. If the estimated results for the other five U.S. corporations are equally as accurate, the estimated $500 billion in amounts owed to the Treasury for the six indicated violations could mean that as much as a trillion dollars could be owed by the larger population of what appear to be widespread violations by possibly dozens or even hundreds of corporate taxpayers.

The paper importantly proposes actions the Treasury and IRS could take now to begin to enforce this existing tax law, and to improve tax administration in general. One important step is the modification and updating of Counsel Advice Memorandum 2007-007, which provides examination guidance related to periodic adjustments, but which clearly conflicts with the cost sharing periodic adjustment regulations that were issued in 2009 several years after the 2007 publication of this guidance.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance and Tax Enforcement, Periodic Adjustments, Section 482, International Taxation, CSA, Cost Sharing Agreements

JEL Classification: F23, H21, H25, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42, E62

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L and Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Kadet, Jeffery M. and Chamberlain, David G., Commensurate With Income: IRS Nonenforcement Has Cost $1 Trillion (June 30, 2023). TAX NOTES FEDERAL, VOLUME 179, MAY 22, 2023 , U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-035, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4496584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4496584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
RANK
362,814
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies