Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditor-Provided Tax Services Impair Auditor Independence or Generate Knowledge Spillover? Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017

58 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023 Last revised: 19 May 2024

Bo Ren

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: July 31, 2022

Abstract

Regulators increasingly express concerns over auditor-provided tax services (APTS) because accounting firms have increasingly relied on the sales from APTS and have expanded their tax advisory services (e.g., tax structuring services) in recent years, raising new regulatory concerns about compromised auditor independence. To date, research on the impact of APTS on auditor independence has yielded mixed results, possibly due to endogeneity issues, providing no clear guidance to regulators. I leverage the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), which resulted in an unexpected shock to tax complexity that increased the demand for APTS by multinational firms, and a difference-in-differences research design to provide new insight into this relation. I document that multinational firms most likely affected by the TCJA have a significant increase in APTS fees and audit quality after the enactment of the TCJA. The effect is concentrated in clients that are more complex and in restatement types that are likely to be associated with the knowledge spillover, suggesting knowledge spillover is a potential channel for APTS to affect audit quality.

Keywords: Non-Audit Services, Auditor-Provided Tax Services, Audit Quality, TCJA.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M44.

Suggested Citation:

Ren, Bo, Do Auditor-Provided Tax Services Impair Auditor Independence or Generate Knowledge Spillover? Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (July 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4496274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4496274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
J Ahn , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Auditor task-specific expertise: The case of fair value accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Aicpa
AICPA Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2014
A Albrecht , E G Mauldin , N J Newton
Do auditors recognize the potential dark side of executives' accounting competence?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2018
N Alsadoun , V Naiker , F Navissi , D S Sharma
Auditor-provided tax nonaudit services and the implied cost of equity capital
AUDITING: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Mikhail Pevzner , Alan Reinstein , Matthew Wynter , Tong Yao
The impact of capping the SALT deduction on municipal bond pricing
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 51 , p. 107312 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
327,319
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies