Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Serious Is Tax Evasion? A Survey of Philippine Opinion

11 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2023

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Monica Violeta Achim

Babes-Bolyai University, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

The present study addresses the question, “How serious is tax evasion?” In order to arrive at an answer, it was necessary to compare the seriousness of tax evasion to that of other selected moral acts. World Values Survey data for the Philippines were used to compare tax evasion to 18 other moral issues. Respondents were asked to select a number from 1 to 10, where 1 = never justifiable and 10 = always justifiable. Claiming government benefits to which you not entitled was deemed to be the least serious moral act. Abortion was considered to be the most serious, followed by suicide, which might lead one to conclude that suicide is preferable to abortion. Tax evasion ranked 11th, slightly less serious than political violence or parents beating children, and somewhat more serious than the death penalty or terrorism. The present study is part of a much larger study that examines the ethics of tax evasion and bribery.

Keywords: ethics, tax evasion, tax morale, ranking

JEL Classification: A14, E26, H26, K40, K42, K49, O17, Z10

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Achim, Monica Violeta, How Serious Is Tax Evasion? A Survey of Philippine Opinion (June 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4497461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
K S Y Aljaaidi , N A A Manaf , S S Karlinsky
Tax Evasion as a Crime: A Survey of Perception in Yemen
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 9 , p. 190 - 201 Posted: 2011
S Benk , R W Mcgee , A M Ross
An Empirical Study of Ethical Opinion in Turkey
Ethics & Public Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 99 Posted: 2009
A M Durham
Citizen Judgments of Appropriate Punishment: An Exploratory Inquiry
Criminal Justice Policy Review , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 357 - 380 Posted: 1986
R Gupta
An Empirical Study of Demographics of Perceptions of Tax Evasion in New Zealand
Journal of Australian Taxation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Robert W. McGee
Religion and Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion: An Empirical Study
McGee, Robert W. & Shopovski, Jovan (Eds.); The Ethics of Tax Evasion: New Perspectives in Theory and Practice. Switzerland: Springer and McGee, Robert W. & Shopovski, Jovan (Eds.); The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Country Studies. Switzerland: Springer, Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,833
RANK
243,680
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies