Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Social Capital Accelerate Firms’ Adjustment Speeds Towards Optimal Tax Levels?

57 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2023

Xiaojun Lin

Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Feng Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Desmond Chun Yip Yuen

University of Macau

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether the level of social capital in the region where a firm’s headquarters are located affects the firm’s responsiveness of altering tax strategies to achieve the optimal level of tax burden over time. As a critical cultural factor, social capital, captured as altruistic civic norms and close social networks, motivates norm-complying behaviors and inhibits norm- deviant behaviors. We expect that social capital reduces frictions associated with timely identification of an optimal tax level and prompt tax-planning adjustments to approach the optimum in a dynamic setting. Consistent with this notion, we find that firms located in areas of high social capital exhibit faster adjustment speeds towards target tax levels than those located in areas of low social capital. Moreover, social capital has an incremental effect beyond firm-specific attributes in determining adjustment speeds. In the time series, we find that the favourable effect of social capital is more pronounced during a financial crisis. Our findings are informative to tax authorities and corporate stakeholders in evaluating the impacts of the external social environment on the responsiveness of corporate tax decisions and thus the overall effectiveness of tax planning.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Social capital, Tax-planning adjustment, Cultural influence

JEL Classification: H21, H26, M14

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Xiaojun and Liu, Ming and Tang, Feng and Yuen, Desmond Chun Yip, Does Social Capital Accelerate Firms’ Adjustment Speeds Towards Optimal Tax Levels? (June 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4502939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4502939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies