Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Disclosure

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4503483

68 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2023

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: July 7, 2023

Abstract

Policies that require, or recommend, disclosure of corporate tax information are becoming more common throughout the world, as are examples of tax-related information increasingly influencing public policy and perceptions. In addition, companies are increasing the voluntary provision of tax-related information. We describe those trends and place them within a taxonomy of public and private tax disclosure. We then review the academic literature on corporate tax disclosures and discuss what is known about their effects. One key takeaway is the paucity of evidence that many tax disclosures mandated with the aim of increasing tax revenue have produced additional revenue. We highlight many crucial unanswered questions, answers to which would inform future tax legislation and financial accounting rule making.

Keywords: tax disclosure, financial accounting disclosure, mandatory disclosure voluntary disclosure, public policy

JEL Classification: H25, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Robinson, Leslie and Slemrod, Joel B., Corporate Tax Disclosure (July 7, 2023). Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4503483, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4503483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4503483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
137 References
As a result, the World Bank began publishing a total tax and contribution rate (% of profit) for each country as part of its Doing Business project, discontinued in 2021
Shell provides this information but in a separate report on its website related to country-by-country reporting
J L Abernathy , S A Davenport , E T Rapley
Schedule UTP: Stock Price Reaction and Economic Consequences
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2012
B Adhikari , J Alm , T F Harris
Small business tax compliance under third-party reporting
Journal of Public Economics , volume 203 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,581
RANK
139,412
137 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies