Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Paying More Attention, Paying More Tax? Investor Site Visits and Corporate Tax Avoidance

51 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 28 Oct 2024

Xinyun Zhou

School of Business, University of Wollongong

Liangbo Ma

University of Wollongong, School of Business

Shiguang Ma

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting Economics and Finance

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

We investigate how investor site visits affect corporate tax avoidance behavior using a sample of Chinese firms from 2012 to 2021. Empirical results indicate that investors’ site visits effectively reduce tax avoidance. We confirm this causal relationship between site visits and reduced tax avoidance by employing instrumental variable and propensity score matching difference-in-differences analyses. Our finding is also robust to alternative measures of tax avoidance and site visits. We identify two mechanisms through which site visits reduce tax avoidance, namely the information acquisition or monitoring mechanism and the earnings management mechanism. Additionally, we conduct cost-benefit analyses of site visits. Using path analyses through a structural equation model, we demonstrate that the reduction in tax avoidance driven by investors’ site visits significantly enhances firm value. Investors also strategically choose target firms to maximize the potential benefits from their site visits. Overall, our results highlight the important economic consequences of site visits as a direct communication between firms and their investors. Our study contributes valuable insights to the literature on site visits and tax avoidance.

Keywords: Site visits, Tax avoidance, Information acquisition, Mechanism, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Xinyun and Ma, Liangbo and Ma, Shiguang, Paying More Attention, Paying More Tax? Investor Site Visits and Corporate Tax Avoidance (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4506713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4506713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Hanlon , S Heitzman
A review of tax research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 127 - 178 Posted: 2010
T Hasan , K John , H Teng , Q Wu
Creative corporate culture and corporate tax avoidance
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2023
L He , L Ma
Common ownership, corporate social responsibility, and their value implications Posted: 2022
T Hjelstrom , J P Kallunki , H Nilsson , M Tylaite
Executives' personal tax behavior and corporate tax avoidance consistency
European Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 520 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
799
RANK
394,952
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies