Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Benefits of Financial Statement Audits: Evidence from IRS Enforcement Outcomes

50 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2023 Last revised: 11 Feb 2024

Michele Mullaney

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: November 2023

Abstract

Using a sample of federal tax returns for private U.S. C corporations, we examine whether financial statement audits are associated with improved IRS enforcement outcomes. We find that the IRS is less likely to propose a deficiency and that deficiencies and settlements are smaller for tax returns with audited GAAP financial statements. Some of these taxpayer benefits are increasing with book-tax conformity. These results are not driven by returns with audited GAAP financial statements claiming fewer or less aggressive tax positions. We also find that tax returns with audited GAAP financial statements report higher rates of initial voluntary compliance and that the IRS spends less time auditing such tax returns. Our results highlight better IRS enforcement outcomes as one benefit of financial statement audits. These results inform private firms as they weigh the costs and benefits of financial statement audits and the IRS as it makes enforcement resource allocation decisions.

Keywords: Tax Compliance, Auditing, C corporations

JEL Classification: H25; H26; M40; M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Mullaney, Michele and Stomberg, Bridget and Williams, Brian, Spillover Benefits of Financial Statement Audits: Evidence from IRS Enforcement Outcomes (November 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4510465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4510465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: an examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
G Armstrong , O Borosh , T Greenaway
IRS Launches Large Partnership Audits. Bloomberg Tax Posted: 2021
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
B A Badertscher , J Kim , W R Kinney , E Owens
Assurance level choice, CPA fees, and financial reporting benefits: Inferences from U.S. private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
886
RANK
446,627
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies