Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reporting as Regulation of Digital Financial Market

80 Washington and Lee Law Review 1181 (2023)

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 728

36 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023 Last revised: 5 Oct 2023

Young Ran (Christine) Kim

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: July 22, 2023

Abstract

FTX’s recent collapse highlights the overall instability that blockchain assets and digital financial markets face. While the use of blockchain technology and crypto assets is widely prevalent, the associated market is still largely unregulated, and the future of digital asset regulation is also unclear. The lack of clarity and regulation has led to public distrust and has called for more dedicated regulation of digital assets. Among those regulatory efforts, tax policy plays an important role. This paper introduces comprehensive regulatory frameworks for blockchain based assets that are considered globally and domestically and shows that tax reporting is the key element of those regulatory frameworks.

Furthermore, this paper argues that tax reporting and transparency requirements can significantly stabilize the digital financial market and provide additional funding for much needed regulatory programs through increased tax compliance. Tax reporting requirements have been effective tools in traditional financial markets. By replicating such policies in the digital financial market, the market would significantly improve. These requirements would help combat money laundering and tax evasion. Also, reporting requirements that target both financial institutions and taxpayers would increase tax compliance and lower administrative burdens. The requirements also have the potential to generate revenue which can fund additional regulatory developments. For these reasons, tax reporting requirements would be an important tool to utilize to bring much needed stability to digital assets and the market.

Keywords: tax reporting, cryptocurrency, blockchain, digital financial market, tax information, money laundering

JEL Classification: K34, K23, G15, G18, G21, G23, G24, G28, H26, O38

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Ran (Christine), Tax Reporting as Regulation of Digital Financial Market (July 22, 2023). 80 Washington and Lee Law Review 1181 (2023), Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 728, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4518699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
As [Bittner] put it, an individual's failure to file five reports in a timely manner might invite a penalty of $50,000, but it cannot support a penalty running into the millions , p. 93 - 94
one thing Congress did not say is that the government may impose nonwillful penalties on a per-account basis. Conspicuously, the one place in the statute where the government needs per-account language to appear is the one place it does not
The Bittner Decision: FBAR Penalties Made Simple, 109 TAX NOTES INT'L 1745 Posted: 2023
George K Yin
Of Blind Men, Elephant, and the Supreme Court's Misinterpretation of the FBAR Statute, in UNIV. VA. PUB. L. & LEGAL THEORY RSCH
PAPER SERIES , volume 1 , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2023
Bittner
97; see also Goulder, supra note 180, at 1747 ("These [contextual] factors aren't controlling, but they add to the case for reversal
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
386,928
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies