Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Price Documentation Rules and Multinational Firm Behavior - Evidence from France

55 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2023 Last revised: 27 Jul 2023

Sabine Laudage Teles

German Institute of Development and Sustainability (IDOS)

Nadine Riedel

University of Münster

Kristina Strohmaier

University of Duisburg-Essen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 24, 2023

Abstract

In recent years, a growing number of countries have enacted tax rules that require multinational enterprises (MNEs) to document their intra-firm trade prices and show that they are set as in third-party trade. The objective of these rules is to limit opportunities for strategic trade mis-pricing and profit shifting to lower-tax affiliates. In this paper, we study the regulations’ fiscal and real effects. Testing ground is the introduction of transfer price (TP) documentation rules in France in 2010. Drawing on rich firm-level data, we show that affected MNEs reduced their outward profit shifting from France, while simultaneously lowering real investments in the country. Outside of France, treated MNEs decreased their investments at low-tax (but not at high-tax) group locations. We show that the observed investment response in France and abroad is driven by reform-induced increases in firms’ effective tax costs; there is no indication that MNEs responded to compliance burdens associated with the new TP documentation rules.

Keywords: multinational firm, corporate taxation, profit shifting

JEL Classification: F21, F23, H25, H26, H87

Suggested Citation:

Laudage Teles, Sabine and Riedel, Nadine and Strohmaier, Kristina, Transfer Price Documentation Rules and Multinational Firm Behavior - Evidence from France (July 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4519673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4519673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
P Antràs
Firm, contracts and trade structure
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1375 - 1418 Posted: 2003
M Bajgar , G Berlingieri , S Calligaris , C Criscuolo , J Timmis
Coverage and representativeness of orbis data
OECD Science, Technology and Industry Working Papers Posted: 2020
C Bauer , D Langenmayr
Sorting into outsourcing: Are profits taxed at a gorilla's arm's length?
Journal of International Economics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 326 - 336 Posted: 2013
J Becker , N Johannesen , N Riedel
Taxation and the allocation of risk inside the multinational firm
Journal of Public Economics , volume 138 , issue 3 , p. 104 - 138 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
352,454
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies