Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: Inflation Indexation and Capital Gains Tax Reform

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 2, 2023, p. 415-428

14 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2023

Melville McMillan

University of Alberta

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

Using data from the Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index from 1971 to 2020, this article examines the differences between the real increases in purchasing power resulting from capital gains and assessed taxable capital gains, assuming inclusion rates of 50 percent and 75 percent, on assets with holding periods of 5, 10, and 20 years. The analysis shows that partial inclusion of nominal gains poorly approximates real (constant-dollar) capital gains income and typically results in considerable overassessment or underassessment of such income and tax. Hence, it is argued that capital gains should be indexed for inflation in order that individual investments, individual stockholders (and capital asset holders generally), and all taxpayers are treated fairly by the tax system. Also, indexation seems a realistic alternative.

Keywords: Capital Gains, Inclusion Rate, Tax Equity, Inflation, Indexation

Suggested Citation:

McMillan, Melville, Policy Forum: Inflation Indexation and Capital Gains Tax Reform (July 25, 2023). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 2, 2023, p. 415-428, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
463
RANK
677,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies