Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MNEs’ Incentives Under a Global Minimum Tax Based on Accounting Standards

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 2, 2023, p. 489-516

28 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2023

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 25, 2023

Abstract

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has proposed a pillar
two global minimum tax (GMT ) for which the tax base is the jurisdiction-specific
effective tax rate (ETR), an accounting metric calculated under the rules of accrual
accounting. History has shown that when tax is imposed on accounting numbers,
taxpayers often use the discretion available in accounting to manage their tax
liability. This paper argues that the discretion that multinational enterprises (MNEs)
can exercise within accounting rules to change their ETRs will be limited because
increasing ETR (to reduce GMT ) also reduces accounting income, which in turn could
impose higher financial reporting costs on firms. Financial reporting costs are
the costs to firms of reporting lower accounting income, and could include higher
borrowing costs or more restrictive covenants imposed by lenders. Firms generally
prefer to report sustainable net incomes with a steady growth rate to impress their
capital market stakeholders. Lower sustainable accounting income can also adversely
impact a firm’s stock price through the price-earnings ratio.
While planning opportunities available to MNEs to avoid the GMT are not limited
to shifting accounting profits across jurisdictions, the alternative of shifting factors
of production is likely to be more complex and more expensive to implement, and is
likely to remove some of the first-order income tax savings from locating intangible
factors of production in low-tax jurisdictions.
Avoiding GMT at the affiliate level by inflating ETRs could therefore conflict with
firms’ overarching objectives of maximizing reported earnings and stock prices.
These objectives are also currently aligned with established executive compensation
structures that motivate management to increase firms’ stock prices

Keywords: Pillar 2, Global Minimum Tax, Tax Incentives, Financial Statements, Accounting Concepts

Suggested Citation:

Mawani, Amin, MNEs’ Incentives Under a Global Minimum Tax Based on Accounting Standards (July 25, 2023). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 2, 2023, p. 489-516, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4520816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
344,239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies