Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individuals' Responsiveness to Marginal Tax Rates: Evidence from Bunching in the Australian Personal Income Tax

TTPI - Working Paper 11/2023

91 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2023

Shane Johnson

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Robert V. Breunig

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy; Tax and Transfer Policy Institute (Crawford School of Public Policy, ANU); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Miguel Olivo-Villabrille

Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Arezou Zaresani

The University of Sydney; Australian National University

Date Written: August 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine individuals’ responsiveness to marginal tax rates using the universe of Australian taxpayer records from 2000 to 2018. Unlike studies from other countries, we find sharp bunching at all kink points. The estimated Elasticities of Taxable Income (ETI) range from effectively zero for wage earners to 0.23 for self-employed individuals. There is substantial heterogeneity in responses to changes in marginal tax rates across subgroups, with higher elasticities for married females, females with children, younger individuals, and those with greater opportunity to shift income within the household. Our findings suggest that individuals’ responsiveness is a function of the marginal tax rates and the tax system's structure and administration.

Keywords: Elasticity of Taxable Income (ETI), bunching, marginal tax rates; taxpayer responsiveness

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Shane and Breunig, Robert V. and Olivo-Villabrille, Miguel and Zaresani, Arezou, Individuals' Responsiveness to Marginal Tax Rates: Evidence from Bunching in the Australian Personal Income Tax (August 1, 2023). TTPI - Working Paper 11/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4529836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4529836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
T Abhayaratna , A Carter , S Johnson
The ATO Longitudinal Information Files (ALife): Individuals -A New Dataset for Public Policy Research , volume 55 Posted: 2022
Commissioner of Taxation Annual Report 2010-11 Posted: 2011
Commissioner of Taxation Annual Report Posted: 2013
Taxation Statistics 2020-21. Australian Government Posted: 2023
Load more
4 Citations
Jonathan James Pincus
Superannuation Tax Burdens: Conceptual Issues*
Economic Papers: A journal of applied economics and policy , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 119 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Ana Gamarra Rondinel , Anna M. H. Price
Do Taxation and Transfer Policies Mitigate the Child Penalty? Evidence from Australia
Journal of Family and Economic Issues Posted: 2025
Crossref
Arezou Zaresani , Miguel Olivo-Villabrille , Robert V. Breunig
Tax Sheltering Cost Among High-Income Taxpayers: Evidence From an Australian Tax Policy Change
TTPI - Working Paper 3/2024 · 90 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Arezou Zaresani , Miguel Olivo-Villabrille , Robert V. Breunig
Tax Sheltering Cost Among High-Income Taxpayers: Evidence from an Australian Tax Policy Change
JPUBE-D-24-00583 · 97 Pages · Posted: 5 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
737
RANK
541,990
4 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies