Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Efficiency of Interactive Voice Response Systems and Tax Compliance: A Field Experiment by the California Franchise Tax Board

Forthcoming, Journal of American Taxation Association

37 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2023

Helen Hurwitz

Saint Louis University

John R. McGowan

Saint Louis University

Date Written: August 9, 2023

Abstract

To shed light on the influence of interpersonal fairness on tax compliance, the California Franchise Tax Board conducted a field experiment to examine how efficiency of Interactive Voice Response (hereafter IVR) systems affects tax collection. We find that taxpayers calling the temporary phone line with greater IVR system efficiency (treatment group) pay a significantly larger percentage of their tax deficiencies than the control group during the study period and this difference is driven by IVR system efficiency. We also find that improving IVR system efficiency increases the likelihood of making payments within the treatment group. Our results support embracing interpersonal fairness principles to encourage tax payments. Our research extends the literature on the service paradigm of tax compliance by providing U.S.-based evidence and has implications for the tax authorities seeking to improve tax compliance efficiency as tax collection generally becomes more difficult and costly with time.

Keywords: tax compliance; interpersonal fairness; field experiment

JEL Classification: H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Hurwitz, Helen and McGowan, John R., The Efficiency of Interactive Voice Response Systems and Tax Compliance: A Field Experiment by the California Franchise Tax Board (August 9, 2023). Forthcoming, Journal of American Taxation Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4536625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
385
RANK
708,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Randomized Social Experiments eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies