Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Migration

UC Davis Law Review (Forthcoming 2024)

55 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2023 Last revised: 7 Sep 2023

Shayak Sarkar

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: August 14, 2023

Abstract

Money moves, while migrants languish. If humans face borders, capital and corporations are purportedly “borderless.” Yet the question of what renders capital and entities “foreign” remains prickly, especially as their migration challenges and reshapes American law.

This Article first unpacks foreign capital’s migration. It specifically parses capital and corporate migration’s intersection with, and similarities to, human migration. For example, the citizenship binary is insufficient to understand the “foreign” in both human and capital migration, as international tax law illustrates. Additionally, just as immigration tax federalism permits nonuniformity, so does capital and corporate tax federalism under the (Foreign) Commerce Clause and after the Supreme Court’s recent decision in National Pork Producers Council v. Ross.

Beyond theoretical parallels, this Article refutes the separation of capital migration and human migration by examining where they meet: human migration regimes that attract capital. “Capital-purchase migration” in universal or treaty investor visas allows foreign capital to pave our streets and then the contributor’s path to permanent residency. “Capital-facilitating migration” permits the temporary workers necessary for an investment to flourish.

Third and finally, a fear of the foreign motivates some laws governing capital and human migration. For capital, that fear lies not only in the much-discussed Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States but also in our everyday lives and communities. As this Article explains, capital migration includes the aesthetic “intrusion” of newcomers’ residential investments and the controversial commercial investments catering to these newcomers. Communities, including longer-settled but fellow migrants, police this foreign capital and the people behind it using municipal codes. As such, this Article reorients our understanding of capital migration as interwoven with human migration, for better or for worse. While this connection counsels local tax flexibility, I caution against fear-based barriers to capital migration.

Keywords: Immigration, Taxation, National Security

Suggested Citation:

Sarkar, Shayak, Capital Migration (August 14, 2023). UC Davis Law Review (Forthcoming 2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4539917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4539917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
394,952
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Davis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies