Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ethics of Generative AI in Tax Practice

Tax Notes Federal, July 31, 2023, pp. 785-793

10 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2023

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Rory McCreight

Blue J Legal

Date Written: July 31, 2023

Abstract

The integration of generative artificial intelligence is beginning to have a profound effect on various industries, including knowledge industries such as law and accounting. Professional services firms are capitalizing on AI technologies for a host of applications, such as tax research, memo drafting, contract analysis, due diligence, document review, predictive analytics, and the list goes on. Recently, AI’s sharply increasing competence, most evident with OpenAI’s GPT-4, has made it a valuable tool for firms looking to improve their operations and deliver more effective and efficient tax planning and advisory services. In-house tax departments are starting to explore using generative AI to assist them in their work as well.

Despite the power of these new tools, their implementation by professional services firms has been highly heterogeneous, ranging from strident bans to enthusiastic interest, adoption, and even direct investment in their development. The potential equity and efficiency gains of AI in the legal field are extraordinarily promising. Still, the adoption of AI tools by professional services firms raises critical concerns regarding data privacy and ethical usage.

This article provides an in-depth exploration of the ethical concerns arising from the proliferation of generative AI tools used for legal research and, especially, for tax research. We examine the challenges concerning the quality and accuracy of output, the potential for biased answers, the lack of verifiability, liability considerations, and privacy risks. We also explore the regulatory measures, technological advancements, and professional solutions being pursued to address these challenges, along with practical recommendations to help tax professionals effectively mitigate risk and safely use AI tools in their work.

Keywords: ChatGPT, OpenAI, generative AI, artificial intelligence

JEL Classification: H0

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and McCreight, Rory, The Ethics of Generative AI in Tax Practice (July 31, 2023). Tax Notes Federal, July 31, 2023, pp. 785-793, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4541369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
874
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,756
RANK
63,053
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies