Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Tax Hubs

Florida Tax Review, Volume 27, Numer 2, 407-477, 2024.

71 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023 Last revised: 11 Jan 2025

Eduardo A. Baistrocchi

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: August 18, 2023

Abstract

Global tax hubs are the black boxes of the international tax regime (ITR). The driving forces of their strategic interaction with other building blocks of the ITR remain undertheorized. This paper offers the first theory of tax hubs as a two-sided global marketplace. It argues that tax hubs are the matchmakers of the ITR. Indeed, international investors, tax hubs and endpoint jurisdictions play different yet interrelated roles within the same ecosystem, i.e., the two-sided platform. The theory is positive rather than normative. It aims to explain how the creeping marketization of the ITR, as part of international law, has been frequently instrumented worldwide over the last century. The paper provides a stress test to the theory’s explanatory power and its limitations. The conceptual framework of this piece rests on antitrust law and economic concepts.

Keywords: Stateless Income, tax treaty disputes, international taxation, Pillar Two, matchmaking service, two-sided platform, competition between compatible standards, network markets, Uber, investment hubs, tax hubs, tax havens, offshore finance, Coase theorem, multihoming,

Suggested Citation:

Baistrocchi, Eduardo A., Global Tax Hubs (August 18, 2023). Florida Tax Review, Volume 27, Numer 2, 407-477, 2024., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4544786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4544786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Tørsløv
Id
, volume 119
Wilson Slemrod
Ring Oei
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,016
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,937
RANK
51,226
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

LSE Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies