Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG, Taxes, and Profitability of P&C Insurers

Posted: 23 Aug 2023

Silvia Bressan

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 22, 2023

Abstract

The growing concerns on sustainability urge insurance companies to incorporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) policies in order to remain competitive.

As all dimensions of sustainability involve taxation, it is important to establish if this association reflects on financial performance.

Our analysis of worldwide property and casualty (P&C) insurers during 2013-2022 reveals that high ESG insurers pay more taxes, while are less profitable compared to low ESG insurers. This pattern is confirmed using instrumental variable regressions and simultaneous equations systems. We argue that sustainable insurers are less tempted to avoid taxes, and don’t shift their tax burdens on policyholders and investors.

However, the interplay between taxes and sustainability seems to harm insurers' profitability, potentially sorting negative consequences on investment and economic growth. This is an important insight for tax authorities and insurance managers.

Keywords: Insurance, ESG, Sustainability, Taxes

JEL Classification: G22, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bressan, Silvia, ESG, Taxes, and Profitability of P&C Insurers (August 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4548859
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
382
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies