Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Tax Evasion in Bangladesh: Current Insights and Future Research Directions

21 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023

MD SHAMIM HOSSAIN

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Sobhan Ali

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dr Chui Ching LING

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chorng Yuan Fung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study aims to identify the factors affecting tax avoidance and tax evasion in Bangladesh as well as propose the future research agenda. Using systematic literature review approach, this paper reviewed 230 articles on the factors affecting tax avoidance and evasion in Bangladesh published between 2010 to 2021 to identify research gaps and propose future research directions. Review shows that several factors have impacts on the tax avoidance and tax evasion practices in Bangladesh. These factors are classified under three categories namely (1) individual taxpayers, (2) business taxpayers and (3) tax administration. Income level, tax penalty, tax morale, inefficient tax return system, and tax assessment process are associated with the individual’s tax avoidance and tax evasion activities. Profitability, corporate governance, financial restrictions, are key factors under business taxpayers’ category that influence tax avoidance and tax evasion. Factors which are related with tax administration include lack of social interaction, distrust of national official, complexities of policies, politicisation of tax authority, lack of political stability, incompetent auditing, insufficient recording, lack of administrative cooperation, lack of accountability, insufficient counselling, and compromising in tax prosecution cases. Corruption, hassle of payment, complex tax assessment, quality of tax collection services and high tax rate are common factors under all categories that have an impact on the tax avoidance and tax evasion activities in Bangladesh. Despite the lack of in-depth review, this paper provides tax regulators in Bangladesh the insights to improve regulations and lessen tax avoidance and tax evasion activities in the country.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, GDP, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

HOSSAIN, MD SHAMIM and Ali, Sobhan and LING, Dr Chui Ching and Fung, Chorng Yuan, Tax Avoidance and Tax Evasion in Bangladesh: Current Insights and Future Research Directions. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4553962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4553962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,223
RANK
320,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies