Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Reduce Profit Shifting by Us Multinational Companies?

48 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2023

Javier Garcia-Bernardo

Utrecht University

Petr Jansky

Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Social Sciences, Institute of Economic Studies

Gabriel Zucman

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act reduced the US corporate tax rate and introduced provisions to curb profit  shifting. We combine survey data, tax data, and firm financial statements to study the evolution of the geographical allocation of US firms’ profits after the reform. The share of profits booked abroad by US multinationals fell 3–5 percentage points, driven by repatriations of intellectual property to the US. The share of foreign profits booked in tax havens remained stable around 50% between 2015 and 2020. Changes in the global allocation of profits are small overall, but some firms responded strongly.

Keywords: multinational corporation, corporate taxation, profit shifting, effective tax rate, country-by-country reporting, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Suggested Citation:

Garcia-Bernardo, Javier and Jansky, Petr and Zucman, Gabriel, Did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Reduce Profit Shifting by Us Multinational Companies?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4554525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4554525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
165,258
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies