Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Wealth Taxes on Cash Flows and Investor Behavior

25 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2023

Robin Morgan

Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

Wealth taxes have recently received significant attention in both academic and political spheres, with the suggestion being that they can fix surging deficits and issues relating to perceptions of unequal and egregious wealth concentration among taxpayers. However, we know relatively little about such taxes. This article builds on prior work on wealth taxes to determine the impact they would have on cash flows and investor behavior, employing quasi-financial modeling of generic assets which are taken as providing deterministic cash flows across discrete units of time. In doing so it makes four contributions to the literature. First, I find that a recurring fixed-rate wealth tax can be made equivalent to an ex-post cash flow tax and would likely lead to significant clientele effects upon its enactment. Second, I show that private risk-taking is the same under a wealth tax relative to a no-tax environment, and that aggregate risk taking is lower under a wealth tax than under an equivalent income tax. Third, under limited assumptions I prove that entrepreneurs and key employees subject to a wealth tax tend to prefer receiving their compensation as wage income rather than returns to capital. Since future wages immediately reduce firm value, they can be used to strip the firm of future dividends and hence reduce wealth tax burdens. In many ways this is the analog of deferral of capital gains taxes for entrepreneurs under the current realization-based system. Fourth, using Kaplow’s (1994) equivalence identity, I ask what wealth tax rates equivalent to historic capital gains rates would have looked like for the 1953-2020 period under partial equilibrium. I find that a 3% wealth tax would have been largely confiscatory over the 2000 to 2020 period, on average being equivalent to a 724.21% income tax on capital.

Keywords: Wealth tax, retrospective taxation, income taxation, risk-taking, tax avoidance, tax base, tax timing, public economics, public finance, tax law, law and economics, law and finance, tax reform, empirical analysis

JEL Classification: E21, E62, G18, H00, H20, H21, H22, H24, H25, H26, H30, H31, K34

Suggested Citation:

Morgan, Robin, The Impact of Wealth Taxes on Cash Flows and Investor Behavior (August 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4556280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4556280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
B Ackerman
Taxation and the Constitution
Columbia Law Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 58 Posted: 1999
A Advani , E Chamberlain , A Summers
A Wealth Tax for the UK: Wealth Tax Commission Final Report Posted: 2020
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
The design of tax structure: Direct versus indirect taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1976
A J Auerbach
Retrospective Capital Gains Taxation
The American Economic Review , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 167 - 178 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
312,985
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies