Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation: Measuring Wealth Under a Wealth Tax

55 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2023

Robin Morgan

Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 30, 2023

Abstract

Wealth tax proposals have seen a resurgence in both academic and political popularity amidst record-breaking fiscal deficits and a popular narrative of growing inequality. This Article gives an in-depth analysis of the seldom-discussed Achilles’ heel of accrual-based taxes including the wealth tax: valuation. I use empirical, financial, and legal analysis to determine the scope of the valuation problem under a wealth tax and evaluate possible solutions in terms of their practicability and effectiveness. I find that the valuation problem is far greater than has been recognized and as a result make three distinct but related contributions to the growing literature on wealth taxes. First, using modern portfolio theory I show that aggregate valuation bases, not often-proposed individual asset bases, are correct measure of wealth. An individual asset base is easily avoided, but since aggregate valuation bases would be impossible to implement policymakers should adopt bundling approaches to asset valuation. Second, I provide empirical estimates using Survey of Consumer Finance data from the 1989-2019 period and find that a majority (between 50 and 75%) of aggregate asset value held by the wealthiest Americans is in traditionally “hard to value” asset classes like private businesses, illiquid funds, or real estate, and further discuss why different asset classes are difficult to value. This means that the valuation problem is not just theoretical and is especially striking considering the estimates do not take tax planning under a wealth tax into consideration. Third, I assess how the overall legal architecture of tax systems can be affected by valuation under a wealth tax, and whether formulaic valuation shortcuts would be satisfactory solutions to the valuation problem. I find that formulaic valuation falls short, and that sweeping changes to entity and wage taxation are necessary to properly integrate a wealth tax, else taxpayers can manipulate measured wealth through deferred compensation plans, charitable foundations, and other entities.

Keywords: Wealth tax, valuation, diversification, breakdown of wealth, tax base, tax timing, tax avoidance, public economics, public finance, tax law, law and economics, law and finance, tax reform, empirical analysis.

JEL Classification: D31, E01, E62, G11, G12, G18, H00, H20, H21, H24, H26, H27, H30, H31, K34.

Suggested Citation:

Morgan, Robin, Valuation: Measuring Wealth Under a Wealth Tax (August 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4556256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4556256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Advani , E Chamberlain , A Summers
A Wealth Tax for the UK: Wealth Tax Commission Final Report Posted: 2020
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
A Ang
Factor Investing (SSRN Scholarly Paper ID 2277397)
Asset Management: a Systematic Approach to Factor Investing Posted: 2013
A Ang , D Papanikolaou , M M Westerfield
Portfolio Choice with Illiquid Assets
Management Science , volume 60 , issue 11 , p. 2737 - 2761 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
RANK
230,052
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies