Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retrieving Tax Audit Criteria to Estimate Tax Audit Impact

43 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2023

Alessandro Santoro

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Economics, Psychology & Social Sciences (CISEPS); Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Daniele Spinelli

Department of Statistics and Quantitative Methods University of Milano-Bicocca

Paolo Berta

University of Milano-Bicocca; University of Milan - Bicocca

Abstract

The criteria used by tax authorities around the world to determine which taxpayers should be audited are mostly unknown. In this paper, we use a machine learning approach and a random forest model to retrieve these criteria from a panel of tax audits and tax reports taken from a large sample of self-employed individuals and sole proprietors from Italy. We find that, in order to prioritise riskier taxpayers, the tax authority uses the information it obtains during the so-called ’expiration period’ (i.e. the period running from the target year to the year of the audit) in a way consistent with the incentives to evade provided by the institutional setting. Using these audit criteria to match audited with unaudited taxpayers within a CEM (coarsened exact matching) approach, we also show that the audits have a short-run positive impact on subsequent reports and that even such a short-run effect is likely to justify an increase in the number of audits with respect to observed levels. Keywords: Optimal Tax Administration, Enforcement Elasticity of Tax Revenue, Machine Learning.

Keywords: Optimal Tax Administration, Tax Audit Criteria, Machine Learning.

Suggested Citation:

Santoro, Alessandro and Spinelli, Daniele and Berta, Paolo, Retrieving Tax Audit Criteria to Estimate Tax Audit Impact. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4569609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4569609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Show
The dynamic effects of tax auditsthe dynamic effects of tax audits
Review of Economics and Statistics Posted: 2022
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International tax and public finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
J Alm , C Blackwell , M Mckee
Audit selection and firm compliance with a broad-based sales tax
National Tax Journal , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 227 Posted: 2004
M Andini , E Ciani , G De Blasio , A D'ignazio , V Salvestrini
Targeting with machine learning: An application to a tax rebate program in italy
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 156 , p. 86 - 102 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
759,919
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies