Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Economic Nexus on Sales Tax Avoidance and Retail Purchases

49 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2023 Last revised: 24 Dec 2024

Zackery D. Fox

Brigham Young University

John R. Robinson

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Stephen A. Stewart

Trinity University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 15, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the impact of adopting economic nexus laws on local consumer consumption patterns. To do so, we focus on a natural experiment involving Washington State, which enacted economic nexus in October of 2018, and its neighboring state Oregon, which has no sales tax. Utilizing data from the Nielsen Consumer Panel survey, we estimate a difference-in-differences regression to test whether the imposition of sales tax on internet purchases in Washington led to an increase in brick and mortar (B&M) retail purchases relative to those in Oregon. We report evidence that consumers in Washington increased purchases at B&M retailers relative to consumers in Oregon, and that this effect is especially prominent in counties surrounding the Washington-Oregon border. We test for whether economic nexus is associated with sales tax avoidance by examining vehicle trips by Washington consumers to five Oregon shopping centers along the Oregon-Washington border. We find that vehicle trips by Washington residents to nearby Oregon shopping centers are also positively associated with Washington’s adoption of economic nexus. These results further confirm the mechanism of sales tax incidence on online sales leading to an increase in cross-border retail B&M shopping trips and offer tangible real-world insight into consumer consumption and sales tax avoidance behavior in our setting.

Keywords: sales taxes, e-commerce, retail sales, South Dakota v. Wayfair

JEL Classification: D12, H25, H26, H73, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Zackery D. and Robinson, John R. and Stewart, Stephen A., The Effect of Economic Nexus on Sales Tax Avoidance and Retail Purchases (September 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4573279 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4573279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Agrawal
The internet as a tax haven? The effect of the internet on tax competition
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2021
D Agrawal , W Fox
Taxes in an e-commerce generation
International Tax Public Finance , volume 24 , p. 903 - 926 Posted: 2017
J Alm , M Melnik
Sales Taxes and the Decision to Purchase Online
Public Finance Review , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 184 - 212 Posted: 2005
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Bricks-and-mortar entry by online retailers in the presence of consumer sales taxes
Management Science , volume 64 , issue 11 , p. 5220 - 5233 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
975
RANK
394,952
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies