Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legal Roadmap for IRA Distributions to CRTs and for Charitable Gift Annuities

16 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Oct 2023

Christopher R. Hoyt

University of Missouri at Kansas City - School of Law

Date Written: September 20, 2023

Abstract

The “SECURE 2.0" legislation of 2022 permits individuals over the age of 70 ½ to make a once-in-a-lifetime tax-free transfer of up to $50,000 directly from an Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRA”) to a charity for a charitable gift annuity (“CGA”) or to a charitable remainder trust (“CRT”). The distribution will be excluded from the IRA owner’s taxable income as a qualified charitable distribution (“QCD”). For individuals age 73 or older, the QCD counts toward satisfying the required minimum IRA distribution for that year.

This article examines every legal requirement that must be met in order for the IRA distribution to be excluded from the IRA owner’s taxable income. Problems can arise in situations when an IRA holds non-deductible contributions, or if the IRA owner claimed an income tax deduction for a contribution to an IRA after age 70 ½. Charities should not use standard off-the-shelf gift annuity agreements, but should instead have agreements drafted specifically for such IRA gifts. A standard CGA or CRT agreement might contain provisions that could make the IRA distribution taxable, such as permitting an assignment of the income interest or including beneficiaries other than the IRA owner and the spouse.

Even when all of the documents are properly drafted, there can be administrative problems that will cause the transaction to blow up. Even though the IRA owner will not be claiming an itemized charitable income tax deduction, all of the requirements to claim such a charitable deduction must be met in order for the IRA distribution to qualify as a QCD. For example, the IRA owner must receive from the charity an accurate contemporaneous written acknowledgment before filing a federal income tax return. The article also examines other unresolved legal issues, such as whether or not the distributions that the IRA owner receives from the CRT or CGA will be exempt from the Section 1411 3.8% net-investment income tax.

Keywords: IRA, charitable remainder trust, charitable gift annuity, individual retirement account, qualified distribution, SECURE 2.0

JEL Classification: J26, K34, L31

Suggested Citation:

Hoyt, Christopher R., The Legal Roadmap for IRA Distributions to CRTs and for Charitable Gift Annuities (September 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4577858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4577858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
§408
§ §408
§170(f) , issue 11
§408
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
RANK
467,335
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies