Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Taxation

Annual Review of Economics, Vol. 15, pp. 425-450, 2023

Posted: 20 Sep 2023

Clemens Fuest

ifo Institute – Leibniz Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich; Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich; Center for Economic Studies (CES)

Florian Neumeier

- Ifo Institute

Date Written: September 1, 2023

Abstract

This article reviews economic research on business taxation, with a focus on corporate income taxation. We discuss what this research can contribute to current debates about corporate tax policy and where existing research is incomplete or inconclusive, so that clarification is needed. The issues we discuss include the incidence of the corporate income tax, its effect on investment and economic growth, the problem of international tax avoidance, and the role of corporate taxes in economic crises, including the current debate about taxes on windfall profits.

Suggested Citation:

Fuest, Clemens and Neumeier, Florian, Corporate Taxation (September 1, 2023). Annual Review of Economics, Vol. 15, pp. 425-450, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4577336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev-economics-082322-014747
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies