Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Narrative Disclosures to Predict Tax Outcomes

Forthcoming in the Review of Accounting Studies

78 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2023 Last revised: 19 Jun 2025

Olga Bogachek

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Antonio De Vito

Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna

Paul Demere

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Francesco Grossetti

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting; Bocconi Institute for Data Science and Analytics

Date Written: April 30, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether narrative discussion in financial disclosures can help corporate stakeholders better predict tax outcomes. To measure qualitative discussion, we use topic modeling analysis to create measures of the thematic content of 10-K disclosures. We find that qualitative discussion in financial disclosures can substantially improve prediction of tax outcomes in in- and out-of-sample tests. We also find that prediction-relevant discussion is distributed throughout the 10-K, supporting that disclosures should be analyzed holistically rather than examining only limited pieces of larger disclosures. Further, we find that analysts often do not use this information effectively, resulting in predictable and economically meaningful forecast errors. These findings empirically illustrate the wealth of qualitative information in 10-K disclosures for stakeholders concerned about tax outcomes and offer a practical approach to examining qualitative disclosures and using them to predict tax outcomes.

Keywords: tax outcomes, tax planning, textual analysis, topic modeling, forecasting, qualitative disclosure, machine learning

JEL Classification: G39, H25, H26, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bogachek, Olga and De Vito, Antonio and Demere, Paul and Grossetti, Francesco, Using Narrative Disclosures to Predict Tax Outcomes (April 30, 2025). Forthcoming in the Review of Accounting Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4578153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4578153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
155 References
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , G Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the united states related?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 344 - 389 Posted: 2022
M P Arena , B Wang , R Yang
Securities litigation and corporate tax avoidance
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 66 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Load more
4 Citations
Olga Bogachek , Francesco Grossetti
Value Relevance Of Textual Characteristics
, p. 61 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Olga Bogachek , Francesco Grossetti
Value Relevance Of Textual Characteristics
, p. 41 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Abhinav Anand , Xing Huan , Jalaj Pathak
10‐K Readability and Shareholder Proposals on Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review Posted: 2025
Crossref
Robert Ullmann , Sophia Wörle
Strategic management of tax disclosure: asymmetric timeliness of tax footnote modifications
Review of Managerial Science , volume 19 , issue 8 , p. 2327 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,664
RANK
167,682
4 Citations
155 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies