Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Digital Technologies to Improve Tax Compliance and Administration Efficiency: A Systematic Literature Review

38 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Siamand Hesami

Bournemouth University - Business School

Hatice P. Jenkins

Eastern Mediterranean University - Department of Banking and Finance

Glenn P. Jenkins

Queen's University - Department of Economics; Eastern Mediterranean University

Date Written: April 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper examines the literature on new technology in taxation by exploring the use of electronic invoicing and the prefilling of returns. The present review followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The methodology employed is in phases, including protocol development, inclusion and exclusion criteria, and a literature search from the databases. According to the results, electronic invoicing and prefilling of returns play a pivotal role in reducing the costs of tax compliance and administration. Results show that lowering tax administration and compliance expenses can reduce financial stress, meet the needs of firms in the development process, and improve tax administration efficiency. In addition, through prefilling systems, governments and organisations worldwide can simplify and track taxation more easily, thus increasing efficiency.

Keywords: Taxation; e-invoicing; prefilling of returns; administrative cost; efficiency; compliance

JEL Classification: H21, H83, O14, O31

Suggested Citation:

Hesami, Siamand and Jenkins, Hatice P. and Jenkins, Glenn P., Emerging Digital Technologies to Improve Tax Compliance and Administration Efficiency: A Systematic Literature Review (April 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4580004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4580004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Digital Dividends Posted: 2016
Tax Compliance Cost Burden and Tax Perceptions Survey in Ethiopia Posted: 2016
M Karajovic , H M Kim , M Laskowski
Thinking Outside the Block: Projected Phases of Blockchain Integration in the Accounting Industry
Aust. Account. Rev , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2019
A Uyar , K Nimer , C Kuzey , M Shahbaz , F Schneider
Can e-government initiatives alleviate tax evasion? The moderation effect of ICT
Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang , volume 166 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,244
RANK
195,180
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies