Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Enforcement and Investment Efficiency——Based on the China's "Vat Reform"

25 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2023

Tianyu Zheng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Shuping Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mingqin Chen

Shantou University

Abstract

Based on the background of China’s “VAT reform” pilot program in multiple provinces, this paper uses a DiD method to test the impact of tax enforcement on corporate investment. We found that the "VAT reform" has suppressed inefficient investment behavior, which is mainly manifested in suppressing the excessive investment behavior of firms. This effect is more significant in regions with insufficient tax collection capacity, economically underdeveloped western regions, and private firms in China. Further research found that the "Golden Tax III Project" promotes the improvement of tax enforcement technology and further improves the investment efficiency.

Keywords: Value Added Tax Reform, Tax Enforcement, Investment efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Tianyu and Lin, Shuping and Chen, Mingqin, Tax Enforcement and Investment Efficiency——Based on the China's "Vat Reform". Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4586237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4586237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Bo Xianhui , Wu Liansheng
Governance effect of state-owned holding and institutional investors: from the perspective of earnings management
Economic research , issue 2 , p. 81 - 91 Posted: 2009
Robert M Bushman , Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting & Economics Posted: 2001
Chen Deqiu , Dong Chen Yunsen , Zhiyong
13 pages in total Chen Gong, Chen Xiding, he Lingling. Analysis of China's local tax enforcement efficiency based on Stochastic Frontier
Management world , issue 5 , p. 82 - 85 Posted: 2009
H Chen , J Z Chen , G J Lobo
Effects of Audit Quality on Earnings Management and Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence from China
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2011
Load more
2 Citations
Hu Zhiying , Weiyan Zeng , Liangliang Wang , Haiyan Zhou
Tax Enforcement and the Access to Trade Credit——Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment of Golden Tax Project Iii in China
FINANA-D-24-01635 · 44 Pages · Posted: 13 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Qian Niu , Qiuyuan Ou , FENGLI KANG
Does Big-Data Tax Governance Alleviate the Maturity Mismatch of Corporate Investment and Financing?
FRL-D-24-05314 · 18 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
RANK
880,951
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies