Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reexamining Triangular B Reorganization: Requirements and Potential Tax Traps or a Time To Revisit its Favorable Application

24 UC Davis Bus. L.J. 167 (2024)

29 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2023 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

One of the most commonly executed changes in the structure of U.S. corporations is an exchange of stock of one corporation with stock of another corporation, a transaction that is often designed and implemented pursuant to Code Section 368(a)(1)(B) and also a special variant it known as “triangular B reorganization.”

The literature on B reorganizations or triangular B reorganizations has focused on analyzing technical aspects in achieving the favorable treatment whereas this paper not only focuses on several U.S. federal income tax aspects that arise upon execution of triangular B reorganizations but would also demonstrates that over the years the Service and the Courts understood the need to limit the favorable tax treatment in a wide variety of triangular B reorganizations and also suggest that the time has come for Congress to reexamine the application of triangular B reorganization in the cross-border context.

Keywords: Reorganization, Corporate Tax, Tax Policy, International Tax, Tax

JEL Classification: K00, K1, K34

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Shanan, Tamir, Reexamining Triangular B Reorganization: Requirements and Potential Tax Traps or a Time To Revisit its Favorable Application (September 30, 2023). 24 UC Davis Bus. L.J. 167 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
698
RANK
357,528
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies