Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Taxes and Emission Trading Systems: Which One is More Effective in Reducing Carbon Emissions? —A Meta-Analysis

53 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2023

Maqsood Ahmad

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Xiaohui Fiona LI

School of Management, Jinan University; Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2023

Abstract

The effectiveness of carbon-pricing policies, particularly carbon taxes and emissions-trading systems (ETSs), in reducing carbon emissions remains a subject of debate, and the empirical evidence is mixed. To address this issue, we conduct a meta-analysis to assess and compare the effectiveness of these two types of policies based on 81 studies conducted from 2011 to 2022. Our analysis shows that both carbon taxes and ETSs have a reduction effect on carbon emissions but that the effect of the former is stronger than the latter. These findings are consistent across the models and samples in the studies. We then document the heterogeneity of the effects of these policies and find that country-level characteristics, such as financial development and GDP growth rates, can enhance the effectiveness of either carbon taxes or ETSs. Furthermore, the reduction effect of carbon taxes is strongest in Asia (excluding Japan) while that of ETSs is strongest in the United States. We also find that carbon taxes and ETSs are particularly effective in reducing carbon emissions in carbon dioxide-intensive industries and emissions from fossil fuels. Overall, our study highlights the effectiveness of carbon-pricing policies to address the environmental challenges associated with climate change and facilitate the achievement of sustainable development goals for carbon neutrality.

Keywords: Carbon taxes, Emissions trading schemes, Carbon emissions, Meta-analysis

JEL Classification: G28, H23, Q54, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Maqsood and LI, Xiaohui Fiona and Wu, Qiang, Carbon Taxes and Emission Trading Systems: Which One is More Effective in Reducing Carbon Emissions? —A Meta-Analysis (September 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4588529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4588529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,816
RANK
98,516
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies