Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advance Tax Payment and Tax Volatility

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series 2023-08

42 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2023 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Fernando Siahaan

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 16, 2024

Abstract

This study explores the association between advance corporate income tax (CIT) payment and tax payment volatility. Specifically, I investigate the relation of the estimation base and the frequency of advance payment with the volatility of the cash effective tax rate (CETR). The aim of advance CIT payment is to promote convenient and disciplined tax payment while ensuring consistency in tax payment patterns. My empirical results indicate that using the current year as the estimation base and increasing the frequency of advance payment are linked to reduced tax volatility. Using the current year as the estimation base and increasing the frequency of advance payment also moderates the insensitivity of tax payment to income changes and lowers the level of outstanding tax liability. This research enhances the existing literature on the factors contributing to tax volatility by providing empirical evidence of how tax payment design is associated to tax volatility.

Keywords: advance tax payment, tax volatility, corporate income tax

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Siahaan, Fernando, Advance Tax Payment and Tax Volatility (August 16, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series 2023-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4589052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4589052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Aicpa
Tax Policy Concept Statement 1. Guiding Principles of Good Tax Policy: A Framework for Evaluating Tax Proposals Posted: 2017
Harald J Amberger
Volatility of Tax Payments and Dividend Payouts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Bozanic , Jeffrey L Zahn , Jacob R Hoopes , Braden M Thornock , Williams
IRS Attention
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 55 , issue 1 Posted: 2017
David Burgstahler , James Jiambalvo , Terry Shevlin
Do Stock Prices Fully Reflect the Implications of Special Items for Future Earnings?
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,293
RANK
347,495
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies