Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Information Disclosure and Access to Debt Finance

54 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2023

Xipei Hou

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU), Antai College of Economics and Management, Students

Jing Xing

Antai College of Economics & Management, Shanghai Jiao Tong University

Abstract

We examine whether corporate tax information disclosure affects firms’ access to debt finance, utilizing the disclosure of top-rated corporate taxpayers in China in 2015 as a quasi-natural experiment. We find that in the absence of formal credit ratings, the disclosure increases top-rated firms’ access to bank loans. Top-rated firms face lower demands for collateral and enjoy more diversified lender bases since the taxpayer rating disclosure. We demonstrate that the disclosure enhances top-rated firms' access to bank loans by reducing banks’ perceptions of firm risks related to tax uncertainty, signaling the degree of agency problems, and promoting information transparency. The top taxpayer rating’s positive impact on access to bank loans is also larger for firms facing weaker bank monitoring. Our study shows that tax information disclosure can influence firms’ access to external finance, which is particularly useful in developing countries where firms lack formal credit ratings.

Keywords: tax information disclosure, bank loans, tax uncertainty, information transparency, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Hou, Xipei and Xing, Jing, Tax Information Disclosure and Access to Debt Finance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4593348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
M Adelino , I Cunha , M A Ferreira
The economic effects of public financing: Evidence from municipal bond ratings recalibration
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
H Aldamen , K Duncan
Does adopting good corporate governance impact the cost of intermediated and non-intermediated debt
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , p. 49 - 76 Posted: 2012
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 1-2 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
RANK
736,113
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies