Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage and its Impact on Tax Aggressiveness: A Study on B3-listed Brazilian Companies

23 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Lennilton Viana Leal

Universidade Federal do Piauí (UFPI)

Date Written: October 8, 2023

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between tax aggressiveness and the number of financial analysts covering Brazilian companies listed on the B3 stock exchange between 2010 and 2021, with a focus on the role of information asymmetry. Specifically, the analysis examines metrics such as Book-Tax Differences (BTD) and Effective Tax Rates (ETR) to assess the extent to which companies employ aggressive tax practices. The findings indicate that an increase in the number of financial analysts covering a company is associated with a decrease in tax aggressiveness, which highlights the role of financial analyst coverage in mitigating information asymmetry between investors and company management. The study employs multiple regression analysis to support the hypothesis that an increase in analyst coverage has a negative impact on tax aggressiveness, which is consistent with the findings of previous research. The research has significant implications for regulators, financial statement preparers, and users who rely on accounting information in Brazil for decision-making. An increase in analyst coverage enhances business visibility and generates a heightened demand for transparent information from analysts, which helps to reduce information asymmetry and promote greater corporate integrity and accountability. Overall, the findings of this study underscore the importance of considering the relationship between information asymmetry and tax aggressiveness in Brazilian companies listed on the B3 stock exchange.

Keywords: Analyst coverage, tax aggressiveness, book-tax differences, effective tax rates

JEL Classification: H26, G2

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Viana Leal, Lennilton, Analyst Coverage and its Impact on Tax Aggressiveness: A Study on B3-listed Brazilian Companies (October 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4595953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4595953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
G A Akerlοf
The Market fοr "Lemοns": Quality uncertainty and the Market Meⅽhanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
N M Belo , H G Brasil
Assimetria infοrmacional e eficiência semifοrte de mercado
Revista de Administração de Empresas -RAE , volume 46 , p. 48 - 57 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
910
RANK
361,062
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies