Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferred tax asset revaluations, costly information processing, and bank deposits: Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

Management Science (forthcoming)

61 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Ulf Mohrmann

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Jan Riepe

Universität Paderborn

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

We examine how information processing costs affect the extent to which depositors use the details in banks’ income statements. Depositors have a unique cost-benefit structure because they are non-professional users of financial information and have high information processing costs. At the same time, they benefit from acting quickly because failing banks make payments on a first-come, first-serve basis. This makes it likely that they will react to a prominent summary measure like the reported net income without adjusting for any risk-irrelevant information included in the line items. In our empirical analysis, we investigate depositors’ behavior as driven by the mechanical revaluations of deferred tax assets due to the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Using a difference-in-difference design, we find deposit withdrawals because of this risk-irrelevant information. In cross-sectional tests, we show that the withdrawals are stronger if the information acquisition costs are low, and the information integration costs are high. Overall, our results show that information processing costs are important for understanding depositors’ reactions to accounting information and can lead to deposit flows that cannot be explained by new risk-relevant information.

Keywords: financial accounting in banks, tax accruals, information processing costs, retail depositors

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mohrmann, Ulf and Riepe, Jan, Deferred tax asset revaluations, costly information processing, and bank deposits: Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (October 9, 2023). Management Science (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4596392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
V V Acharya , N Mora
A Crisis of Banks as Liquidity Providers
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2015
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
B A Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
The market reaction to bank regulatory reports
Review Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 686 - 731 Posted: 2018
H Baer , E Brewer
Uninsured deposits as a source of market discipline. Some new evidence , p. 23 - 31 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
275,235
2 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies