Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Global Minimum Tax on Tax Competition

In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 323-378

Posted: 12 Oct 2023

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

John Vella

University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Date Written: April 20, 2023

Abstract

This article examines the impact of the Pillar Two Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) Rules on tax competition. It sets out and explores three main conclusions on the GloBE Rules’ impact on tax competition. First, the GloBE Rules set a floor on tax paid on profit by multinationals equal to 15% of “Excess Profit”. They also set a floor on competition among “source” countries. Second, the GloBE Rules may provide some countries with an incentive to raise revenues through a qualified domestic minimum top up tax rather than a corporation tax. Third, countries can compete below the floor by offering grants and “Qualified Refundable Tax Credits”. The article proposes an alternative design for the top-up tax calculation that may have been preferable. Overall, it concludes that the impact of the GloBE Rules on tax competition may be less straightforward and significant than may have been expected. The rules also create incentives that are not clearly desirable from a policy perspective.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: global minimum tax, tax competition, profit shifting, GloBE (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), QDMTT, top-up tax, tax policy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Devereux, Michael P. and Vella, John, The Impact of the Global Minimum Tax on Tax Competition (April 20, 2023). In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 323-378, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4599754
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies