Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conceptual Legal Challenges in Tax Automation via Blockchain Technology

In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 464-508

46 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2023 Last revised: 16 Sep 2025

Christina Dimitropoulou

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Yasmin Lawson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 8, 2023

Abstract

The blockchain technology has been projected to substantially disrupt numerous aspects of tax processes. This prediction has by and large not come to fruition yet. While every disruptive technology must overcome some barriers before realizing its full potential, the authors inquire whether there is something inherently hindering in the way current laws are drafted and constitutional guarantees formulated that prevents the blockchain from flourishing. The authors argue that, to reap the full benefits of automation via blockchain, the existing social institutions (legal framework) and the creative achievement (new technologies) must meet half way. On the one hand, new technologies such as blockchain must be established within the framework of the existing social structure and be fully subjected to the fundamental rights guaranteed by the legal order. On the other hand, the legal order itself must be transformed in a way that permits binary automated outcomes while preserving equity. This paper looks at the ways of achieving that.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: blockchain, automation, tax technology, constitutional law, legality principle

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dimitropoulou, Christina and Lazarov, Ivan and Lawson, Yasmin, Conceptual Legal Challenges in Tax Automation via Blockchain Technology (May 8, 2023). In: World Tax Journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 15 (2023), no. 3 ; p. 464-508, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4599750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2022 on a pilot regime for market infrastructures based on distributed ledger technology, and amending Regulations (EU) No 600
Regulation , volume 151 , issue 909 Posted: 2014-02
Asia-Pac. Tax Bull , volume 2 Posted: 2020
Thailand has implemented a VAT refund system through a mobile app and underlying blockchain technology
A consortium of tax authorities, universities and industry have suggested a use-case of blockchain on withholding tax relief: EY (2021)
Withholding tax distributed ledger report
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies