Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Closed and Open Loop Oil Taxation Policies in New Mexico

32 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2023

Saeed Langarudi

System Dynamics Group, Department of Geography, University of Bergen

Sajid Al Noor

Tennessee State University

Kyle Eagar

Independent

Date Written: October 16, 2023

Abstract

This paper develops a model to explore oil taxation policies for stabilizing oil tax revenue at high levels. The tax policies we examine include a) fixed, b) variable based on price trends, c) production-driven (regressive or progressive), and d) productivity-based. While the production-driven tax policy forms a closed-loop system, other policies perform in an open-loop system, independent of production. We calibrate the model for New Mexico, the third-largest oil producer in the US. Simulations show that a fixed tax policy generates relatively low but stable revenue. Price-adjusted tax policy yields higher but less stable revenue compared to the fixed tax. Compared to the previous cases, the production-driven tax policy produces more but less stable revenue. The productivity-based tax generates the highest and most stable revenue. We also test a closed-loop tax design, which performs better with the regressive policy when producers are sensitive to tax rates or when tax rates are high. In other cases, progressive tax rates will generate higher revenue. A regressive policy is likely to generate greater stability regardless of the circumstances, implying that short-term local treasury adjustments pay off more than long-term global adjustments.

Keywords: exhaustible resource taxation, public finance, system dynamcis, policy feedback

JEL Classification: H21,H71,Q38,Q48

Suggested Citation:

Langarudi, Saeed and Al Noor, Sajid and Eagar, Kyle, Closed and Open Loop Oil Taxation Policies in New Mexico (October 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4603144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4603144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
L Abdelwahed
More oil, more or less taxes? New evidence on the impact of resource revenue on domestic tax revenue
Resources Policy , volume 68 Posted: 2020-10
R M Auty
Natural resources, capital accumulation and the resource curse
Ecological Economics , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 627 - 634 Posted: 2007-03
Blm
About the BLM Oil and Gas Program Posted: 2021
R Boadway , M Keen
The Taxation of Petroleum and Minerals: Principles, Problems and Practice , p. 13 - 84 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
RANK
897,570
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies