Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of a Loss: The Impact of Restricting Tax Loss Transfers

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 23-037

96 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2023 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Theresa Bührle

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Barbara Stage

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 01, 2023

Abstract

We study the economic consequences of anti-loss trafficking rules, which disallow the use of loss carry-forwards as tax shield after a substantial ownership change. We use staggered changes to these rules in the EU27 Member States, Norway, and the United Kingdom from 1998 to 2019 and find that limiting the transfer of tax losses reduces the number of M&A by 18%. The impairment is driven by loss-making targets. Turning to the broader impact on industry dynamics, we find decreases in survival rates of young companies in response to tighter regulations. Some of these start-up deaths are compensated by new firm entrants. Loosening of regulation spurs firm entry and survival. Finally, tightening (loosening) anti-loss trafficking rules impairs (increases) industry productivity, especially for R&D-intensive industries that are more prone to loss-making in their life cycle. This is driven by anti-loss trafficking rules muting deal synergies and risk-taking.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, anti-loss trafficking rules, taxes, market entry, market exit, industry performance, innovation

JEL Classification: G34, G38, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bührle, Anna Theresa and Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Stage, Barbara and Voget, Johannes, The Value of a Loss: The Impact of Restricting Tax Loss Transfers (August 01, 2023). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 23-037, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4605867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4605867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Eli Amir , Theodore Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Christopher S Armstrong , Stephen Glaeser , Sterling Huang , Daniel J Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
Wiji Arulampalam , Michael P Devereux , Federica Liberini
Taxes and the location of targets
Journal of Public Economics , volume 176 , p. 161 - 178 Posted: 2019
Susan Athey , Guido W Imbens
The state of applied econometrics: Causality and policy evaluation
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
692
RANK
140,880
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies