Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An International Tax Law Research Agenda

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-11

18 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2023 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Aitor Navarro

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: October 19, 2023

Abstract

This essay briefly addresses future research avenues in international tax law. It aims to provide a brief overview of the topics that will likely be explored in this field. To do so, it establishes a framework to delineate the scope of international tax law and a briefing on its evolution. Afterwards, it establishes its current state of play and defines building blocks for future research. To illustrate paths to future research, five specific topics are addressed, namely the expansion or contraction of anti-BEPS rules, tax sovereignty and tax competition after minimum taxation, the taxation of economic rents in market jurisdictions, the formulaic allocation of taxable bases and the exploration of new ways to further multilateralism.

Keywords: International Taxation, BEPS, tax sovereignty, tax competition, minimum taxation, economic rents, formulary apportionment, tax multilateralism

JEL Classification: H20, H87, F23, F63, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Navarro, Aitor, An International Tax Law Research Agenda (October 19, 2023). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4606812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4606812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
See Félix , D Martínez Laguna
Abuse and Aggressive Tax Planning: Between OECD and EU Initiatives: The Dividing Line between Intended and Unintended Double Non-Taxation
World Tax Journal , volume 9 , issue 2 Posted: 2017
See Rita De La Feria , Georgia Maffini
Revising the Fiscal and Social Security Landscape of International Teleworkers in the Digital Age' [2021] 49(2) Intertax 120. 48 EU Tax Observatory
New Forms of Tax Competition in the European Union: an Empirical Investigation Posted: 2021
See Maarten , Floris De Wilde
Sharing the Pie: Taxing Multinationals in a Global Market , volume 488 Posted: 2017
See Baruch , Lev , J S Romero , Tavares
Multinational Firm Theory and International Tax Law: Seeking Coherence
Intangibles: management, measurement and reporting , volume 8 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
125,413
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies