Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contract Formation as a Realization Event

Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 22, No. 219, 2022

54 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023

Glenn Walberg

University of Vermont - School of Business Administration

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act introduced a partial book-tax conformity requirement to have certain taxpayers accrue income items upon the earlier of satisfying the traditional all events test or including the items in financial statement revenue. However, this requirement will not accelerate recognition for an item included in revenue unless a realization event has occurred. Common income accruals thus depend on the precise timing of a triggering event as determined from realization concepts. But these concepts provide little guidance for identifying when realization occurs during the sequence of events involved in a routine sale of goods or services.

Although events occurring later in the sale process have influenced income recognition and emerged as possible candidates for triggering realization, the formation of a contract remains unexplored as an alternative realization event. Recent contract law theories assert that legal entitlements transfer at contract formation to establish protected interests, rather than create mere expectations, in executory promises. This article explores how this transfer could indicate that a sale has occurred, for realization purposes, when parties form a contract regardless of when they might perform. The article explains that realization at contract formation would align with an approach to derive realization events from changes in legal entitlements and with a goal to find administratively convenient times to account for income. Contract formation can therefore appropriately trigger the realization of income early in a sales process for goods or services and thereby enable the partial conformity requirement to accelerate recognition for items reported as financial statement revenue.

Keywords: realization, all events test, book-tax conformity, section 451

JEL Classification: H20,H25,K34,M40,M48,M49

Suggested Citation:

Walberg, Glenn, Contract Formation as a Realization Event ( 2022). Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 22, No. 219, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4607298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Pub. L. No. 115-97, § 13221(a), 131 Stat , p. 2113 - 2115 Posted: 2017
See Nathan Richman
Taxpayers] have to keep track of two triggering mechanisms: the old due, paid, or earned standard and the new book inclusion standard. This duality is a stark contrast from a simple book-tax conformity rule
Posted: 2020-08
James Atkinson
Sec. 451(b) effectively imposes a (one-way) book-tax conformity rule for recognizing income for tax purposes
The Intersection of New Sec. 451 and Revenue Recognition, TAX ADVISER Posted: 2018-06-01
H R See , Rep
, volume 872 , p. 115 - 466 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
RANK
631,616
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies