Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax System Complexity and Investment Sensitivity to Tax Policy Changes

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2023-11

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4607146

106 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2023 Last revised: 21 Feb 2024

Harald Amberger

Vienna University of Economics and Business

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

Effective policymakers must balance the demands of formulating a corporate tax system that raises revenue and spurs economic activity (e.g., investment) while promoting a “level playing field” across firms. Balancing these tradeoffs has likely caused tax systems to become more complex over time, increasing firms’ difficulty in understanding and complying with tax regulations. We investigate the impact of tax system complexity on the responsiveness of firm-level investment to tax policy changes. Exploiting staggered tax rate changes and variation in tax system complexity across countries, we document two key findings. First, firm-level investment is less sensitive to changes in the corporate tax rate when tax system complexity is higher, suggesting that such complexity can undermine the ability of tax policy to affect economic growth. Second, the impact of tax complexity on the sensitivity of investment to tax rate changes varies significantly across firms, with domestic-owned, smaller, and private firms being more affected. These cross-sectional disparities are consistent with tax system complexity potentially reducing tax system parity. Collectively, our findings suggest that corporate tax system complexity can negatively impact the ability of fiscal policy to affect investment and lead to heterogeneous tax policy responses across firms.

Keywords: Tax complexity, tax rates, investment, employment

JEL Classification: D25, F23, H23, H25, G31

Suggested Citation:

Amberger, Harald Johannes and Gallemore, John and Wilde, Jaron H., Corporate Tax System Complexity and Investment Sensitivity to Tax Policy Changes (August 29, 2025). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2023-11, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 4607146, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4607146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4607146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
A A Acito , M Nessa
Law firms as tax planning service providers
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2022
D Armstrong , S Glaeser
Does Tax Complexity Discourage Entrepreneurship? Working paper Posted: 2023
E Asen
Survey Shows Growing Tax Complexity for Multinationals Posted: 2021
A J Auerbach , K Hassett
Tax policy and business fixed investment in the United States
Journal of Public Economics , volume 47 , issue 2 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,212
RANK
59,650
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies