Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Stimulate Capital Expenditures? A Firm-Level Approach

40 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023

John Bitzan

North Dakota State University - College of Business

Yongtao Hong

North Dakota State University - College of Business

Fariz Huseynov

North Dakota State University - College of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 motivated firms to increase capital investments. Using a unique approach that identifies firm-level tax benefits and incentives introduced by the TCJA, we find that firms that realized tax benefits increased their investment in fixed assets in the following year. Specifically, as a result of the change, an increase in forecasted earnings and an increase in nonrecurring tax benefits stimulated growth in capital investments. We also find that the investment-inducing effect of the TCJA was larger for firms with a higher cost of capital and for those with better alignment between management and shareholder interests. Although our study is not able to explain the long-term consequences of TCJA, it improves upon the previous literature showing that the mixed findings of previous studies may be the result of the unequal distribution of tax benefits among firms.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Rate, TCJA, Tax Law, Capital Investment, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G38, G31, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bitzan, John and Hong, Yongtao and Huseynov, Fariz, Did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Stimulate Capital Expenditures? A Firm-Level Approach (October 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: The effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
M E Barth , K Li , C Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information Posted: 2021
B Bennett , Z Wang
Stock Repurchases and the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Posted: 2021
B D Beyer , J F Downes , M E Mathis , E T Rapley
US multinational companies' payout and investment decisions in response to international tax provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
971
RANK
449,075
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies