Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Audit Trainings in the Global South: Are They Effective in Mobilizing Domestic Revenues?

53 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023

Sabine Laudage Teles

German Institute of Development and Sustainability (IDOS)

Date Written: May 3, 2023

Abstract

Transfer pricing audits are an important tool for tax administrations to combat tax avoidance by multinational enterprises (MNEs). However, many countries in the Global South lack the capacity to conduct effective transfer pricing audits on the largest taxpayers within the country. The Tax Inspectors Without Borders (TIWB) program provides transfer pricing audit training to tax administrations in these countries. In this paper, I estimate the causal effects of TIWB trainings completed in 29 countries between 2012 and 2019 on corporate income tax revenues using a dynamic difference-in-differences model and panel data. I find positive and significant effects of TIWB trainings on corporate tax revenues five to six years after the start of the programs, while no effect is found in the years prior to TIWB training. In a case study on Colombia, I find that the TIWB program significantly increased the effective tax rates and pre-tax profits of MNEs in Colombia relative to domestic firms. Thus, transfer pricing audit capacity building is effective in curbing profit shifting and increasing domestic revenues in countries in the Global South.

Keywords: domestic revenue mobilization, transfer pricing, tax avoidance, capacity building

JEL Classification: H26, H83, F23

Suggested Citation:

Laudage Teles, Sabine, Transfer Pricing Audit Trainings in the Global South: Are They Effective in Mobilizing Domestic Revenues? (May 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
P Bachas , A Jensen
Tax structures and size based tax policies: A cross-country database and comparative study Posted: 2015
M Bajgar , G Berlingieri , S Calligaris , C Criscuolo , J Timmis
Coverage and representativeness of Orbis data
OECD Science, Technology and Industry Working Papers , volume 2020 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 63 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
719
RANK
549,213
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies