Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Financial Transactions in Multiple Markets

50 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023 Last revised: 18 Mar 2025

Patrick Thöni

University of Copenhagen - Copenhagen University; Eurac Research - Institute for Renewable Energy

Vincent Wolff

University of Zurich - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 30, 2023

Abstract

What are the effects of taxing stock and derivative transactions on market liquidity and welfare? My theoretical model predicts asymmetric responses to equivalent tax rates across markets, resulting in welfare improvements upon taxation. Stock volume decreases significantly relative to options volume, and liquidity improves in the taxed market due to reduced adverse selection. I causally test the model’s predictions by leveraging three separate FTT introductions on stocks and derivatives. Empirical results show reduced trading in the taxed markets and migration of informed trading to the untaxed market. I reject the common conception that the synthetic replication of stocks is a practiced alternative to avoid the tax.

Keywords: Financial transaction tax, optimal taxation, liquidity, welfare

JEL Classification: D40, D82, F38, H21

Suggested Citation:

Thöni, Patrick and Wolff, Vincent, Taxing Financial Transactions in Multiple Markets (October 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4612809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4612809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Amf
The financial transaction tax: A really good idea
Capelle-Blancard Presentation to the Scientific Advisory Board of the AMF on September 14, 2015 The Scientific Advisory Board Review Posted: 2017
Andrew Ang , Assaf A Shtauber , Paul C Tetlock
Asset pricing in the dark: The cross-section of otc stocks
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , p. 2985 - 3028 Posted: 2013
Fatemeh Aramian , Carole Comerton-Forde
Retail trading in european equity markets Posted: 2023
Ate
El nuevo impuesto sobre transactiones financieras
Nota informative , volume 3 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
429
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
RANK
155,588
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies