Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Administration Reform and the Role of Political Connections in Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China

15 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2023

Yang Pan

Taizhou University

Xihao Wu

Hainan University

Abstract

Using the consolidation of China’s State Tax Administration (STA) and Local Tax Bureaus (LTBs) in 2018 as a quasi natural experiment, we find that the tax-reduction effect of political connections is mitigated by tax administration reform. In addition, the mitigation effect of tax administration reform only exists within firms with poor governance mechanism and regions with more government interference. Furthermore, we find that compared with central political connections, local political connections promote corporate tax avoidance. Collectively, these findings discover the implications of formal institutions reform on the effectiveness of informal institutions in emerging markets.

Keywords: tax administration reform, political connections, corporate tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Yang and Wu, Xihao, Tax Administration Reform and the Role of Political Connections in Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4613564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4613564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the Radar: The Effects of Monitoring Firms on Tax Compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
M C Basri , M Felix , R Hanna , B A Olken
Tax Administration versus Tax Rates: Evidence from Corporate Taxation in Indonesia
American Economic Review , volume 111 , p. 3827 - 3871 Posted: 2021
J L Brown , K Drake , L Wellman
The Benefits of a Relational Approach to Corporate Political Activity: Evidence from Political Contributions to Tax Policymakers
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 37 , p. 69 - 102 Posted: 2015
H Chen , S Tang , D Wu , D Yang
The Political Dynamics of Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Chinese Experience
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , p. 157 - 180 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
335
RANK
880,951
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies