Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Added Tax in the Extractive Industries

IMF Working Paper No. 2023/221

49 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2023 Last revised: 15 Nov 2023

Artur Swistak

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Nate Vernon

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Abstract

Lower capacity countries often struggle to administer the Value Added Tax (VAT) in the extractive industries, partly due to the large VAT refunds needs of this capital and export-intensive sector. Assuming that the first-best policy (apply the standard VAT to the extractive industry) is not possible in the medium-term, what should countries do? This paper systemically analyzes second-best VAT policy designs considering the impact of the VAT on three key stakeholders: the investor, domestic suppliers, and the tax administration. The analysis concludes that the generally preferred policy is to provide a VAT exemption for imports and either fully tax or exempt domestic supplies, although country characteristics (and, specifically the relative weighting of stakeholders) matter. Moreover, governments should make efforts to shorten refund delays and transition to a standard VAT over the longer-term.

Keywords: value added tax, tax policy, extractive industries, fiscal regime design, mining, hydrocarbons, policy design, VAT scheme, EI company, input VAT recovery, input VAT, Value-added tax, Tax refunds, VAT exemptions, Imports, Tax allowances

JEL Classification: H25, Q31, Q32, Q35, Q38, H20, F10, H24

Suggested Citation:

Swistak, Artur and Vernon, Nate, Value Added Tax in the Extractive Industries. IMF Working Paper No. 2023/221, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4619839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.5089/9798400257827.001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Dora Benedek , Ruud A De Mooij , Michael Keen , Philippe Wingender
Varieties of VAT Pass Through
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 890 - 930 Posted: 2020-08
Jack Calder
Administering Fiscal Régimes for Extractive Industries : A Handbook Posted: 2014
Gérard Chambas
Sécuriser remboursements de crédits de TVA dans les pays membres de l'UEMO
Conference Paper, UEMOA-IMF Conference Coordination fiscale en UEMOA: évaluer le passé et tracer l'avenir Posted: 2014-04-30
Liam Ebrill , Michael Keen , Victoria Perry , Jean-Paul Bodin
The Modern VAT Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
826,938
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies