Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Linear Earned Income Tax Credit with Endogenous Extensive Margin

24 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 30 Jan 2024

Michel Strawczynski

Hebrew University of Jerusalem _ Public Policy; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Eliezer Kaplan School of Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: November 7, 2023

Abstract

In this paper I calculate the optimal linear Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) schedule when the participation decision of low-wage workers is endogenous. I obtain that the maximal EITC lies between 40 to 50 percent, which is close to actual rates applied at the federal EITC system in the US. My optimal formula shows that the maximal EITC increases as a function of three terms: a higher density of individuals that are affected by government incentives to enter the labor market, a higher long-term impact of the EITC on labor aversion, and a weaker effect on unskilled labor market equilibrium wage. My simulations show that it is optimal for the government to impose an individual-based EITC system – as opposed to a family-based system. I also find that when 'participation reducing' cultural factors are prevalent, the optimal linear EITC is an effective tool for fighting poverty and improving social utility. Finally, my simulations show that when the government subsidizes fixed costs for labor market participation – kindergarten costs, etc. - the simulated optimal linear EITC remains similar.

Keywords: EITC, linear, extensive margin

JEL Classification: H21, H24, I38

Suggested Citation:

Strawczynski, Michel, Optimal Linear Earned Income Tax Credit with Endogenous Extensive Margin (November 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4626003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Apps , N Van Long , R Rees
Optimal piecewise income taxation
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 545 Posted: 2014
P Apps , R Rees , T O Thoresen , T E Vattø
Alternatives to Paying Child Benefit to the Rich: Means Testing or Higher Tax? Posted: 2020
J Bastian , M Jones
Do EITC expansions pay for themselves? Effects on tax revenue and government transfers
Journal of Public Economics , volume 196 Posted: 2020
J Bastian , K Michelmore
The long-term impact of the Earned Income Tax Credit on children's education and employment outcomes
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1127 - 1163 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
RANK
889,370
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies