Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of mandatory disclosure on SEC financial statement review outcomes

51 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Cristi A. Gleason

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Martin Thomsen

University of Siegen

Date Written: November 6, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether changes in mandatory financial statement disclosure are associated with changes in the likelihood firms receive tax-related comments from the SEC. The SEC is charged with reviewing financial filings to monitor and improve financial reporting quality. Regulators, investors and researchers question the effectiveness of SEC reviews. SEC reviews are dependent on disclosures because SEC reviewers in the initial review do not have access to underlying accounting records used by external auditors. We focus on two changes in 2007, one that increased required disclosure and one that decreased required disclosure. We find that the increase in tax disclosures for US GAAP filers following FIN 48 is associated with an increased likelihood of receiving a tax-related SEC comment letter. Whereas the decrease in required disclosure for foreign filers following the elimination of the reconciliation requirement is associated with a lower likelihood of receiving tax-related comments. SEC reviews are also less likely to target tax avoidance when disclosure is lower. Our study underscores that mandatory disclosure policies enhance the efficacy of the SEC’s oversight. Our evidence that mandatory disclosure facilitates SEC reviews also highlights a potential cost of permitting foreign filers to provide fewer disclosures to U.S. investors than U.S. firms are required to provide.

Keywords: Disclosure, SEC comment letters, SEC enforcement, Monitoring, FIN 48, 20-F, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gleason, Cristi A. and Thomsen, Martin, The impact of mandatory disclosure on SEC financial statement review outcomes (November 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4626209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
M K Baugh , K J Kim , Lee
The Effect of SEC Reviewers on Comment Letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 656 - 690 Posted: 2021
Z Bozanic , J R Dietrich , B A Johnson
SEC comment letters and firm disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 357 Posted: 2017
S V Brown , X Tian , J W Tucker
The spillover Effect of SEC comment letters on qualitative corporate disclosure: Evidence from the risk factor disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 622 - 656 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Xuedan Tao , Huabing Barbara Wang , Qian Xin , You Xu
Does the mandatory disclosure of suppliers' tax uncertainties affect supply chain relations?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 89 , p. 102669 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
RANK
304,992
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies