Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Prizes and Awards

26 Missim [Taxes] 19 (2012)

30 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Tal Mizrahi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

In recent years, many Israelis have won various awards and prizes which, beyond the prestige of actually winning, their financial value is not negligible. In addition to such awards given for extraordinary achievements, there are many Israelis who are awarded grants and scholarships that are awarded on the basis of educational achievements, research achievements, or research plans or on one's socio-economic status. Moreover, there are many sports players who are awarded monetary prizes, and more recently more and more reality shows on television are awarding valuable prizes to people who participate in such series and win. In Israel, there is a lack of uniformity when it comes to the taxation of prizes and awards and this article critically examines the tax policy adopted and compares it to the common tax practices in different countries around the world.

Keywords: Tax, Personal Income Tax, International Tax

JEL Classification: K10, K12, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir and Mizrahi, Tal, Taxation of Prizes and Awards (December 1, 2012). 26 Missim [Taxes] 19 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
324,400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies