Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Pigouvian Taxes - Do You Have a Cigarette - Tobacco Taxation is Killing Me

21 Hamishpat Law Review 67 (2016)

38 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Guy Azulay

College of Management Academic Studies

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

The discussion on Pigouvian taxes mainly focuses on the positive and the negative externalities
that different behaviors create and cause and how the imposition of tax (including negative tax - subsidy) meaningfully impacts such behavior. The article focuses on the various legal means to combat the use of Tobacco products and argues that among such means tax law is the most efficient economic and legal means to do so. The paper examines the Israeli Pigouvian tax imposed on the consumption of Tobacco products and proposes certain amendments that would address the regressive impacts such taxes create. ​

Keywords: Taxation, Environmental Law, Health Law, Pigouvian Tax, Tax Policy

JEL Classification: K10, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir and Azulay, Guy, Exploring Pigouvian Taxes - Do You Have a Cigarette - Tobacco Taxation is Killing Me (November 8, 2023). 21 Hamishpat Law Review 67 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
439,313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies