Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Control and Corporate VAT Compliance: An Empirical Assessment of the Moderating Role of Tax Strategy

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023

Maarten Sigle

Nyenrode Business University

Sjoerd Goslinga

Leiden University

Lisette E. C. J. M. van der Hel

Nyenrode Business University

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: November 17, 2023

Abstract

Tax control frameworks (TCF) of higher quality are seen by tax authorities and the OECD as a prerequisite for corporate tax compliance. However, a higher quality TCF can also enable organizations to reduce their tax burden by providing information that allows them to make the best use of opportunities within the boundaries of the tax law. We investigate the effect of TCF quality on tax compliance by looking at the tax strategy of the organization and whether the organization unintentionally or intentionally fails to comply. We focus on Value Added Tax (VAT) and test our hypotheses using a sample of large organizations, using a combination of survey data and tax audit results from the Netherlands. Our results show that a TCF of higher quality is positively associated with VAT compliance, resulting in both less unintentional and less intentional errors requiring tax adjustment. For organizations with a more conservative tax strategy, we find that the quality of the TCF does not affect the level of intentional non-compliance. For organizations with a more aggressive tax strategy however the level of intentional non-compliance is conditional upon the quality of the TCF, with a lower/higher quality TCF leading to more/ less intentional non-compliance.

Keywords: VAT compliance, tax strategy, internal control, tax control framework

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Sigle, Maarten and Goslinga, Sjoerd and J. M. van der Hel, Lisette E. C. and Wilson, Ryan J., Tax Control and Corporate VAT Compliance: An Empirical Assessment of the Moderating Role of Tax Strategy (November 17, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4636196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A M Bauer
Tax avoidance and the implications of weak internal controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
M Bergman , A Nevarez
Do audits enhance compliance? An empirical assessment of VAT enforcement
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 817 - 832 Posted: 2006
I D Bimo , C Y Prasetyo , C A Susilandari
The effect of internal control on tax avoidance: the case of Indonesia
Journal of Economics and Development , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 131 - 143 Posted: 2019
K Blaufus , J Reineke , I Trenn
Perceived tax audit aggressiveness, tax control frameworks and tax planning: an empirical analysis
Journal of Business Economics , volume 93 , p. 509 - 557 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
208,831
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies