Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitudes toward Tax Evasion in Poland

Studia Prawno-Ekonomiczne (Studies in Law and Economics), 128, 95-116 (2023)

22 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Monika Bolek

University of Lodz

Jovan Shopovski

European Scientific Institute, ESI

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 28, 2023

Abstract

Background: Tax evasion is a practical and theoretical problem. From the point of view of governments, it is important to collect as much tax as possible to meet the needs of the state. Theoretical analysis of this issue makes it possible to determine the scale of tax evasion, related factors, and measurement methods.

Research purpose: The article assesses the level of acceptance of tax evasion in Poland in relation to demographic, economic and cultural factors.

Methods: Based on data from the unique World Value Survey database, the acceptance of tax evasion was analyzed based on various factors, and the significance of differences between the surveyed groups was examined.

Conclusions: The results confirm a relationship between the acceptance of tax evasion and demographic, economic, and cultural factors in Poland. Support has declined significantly over time in Poland. Like in many other countries, women supported tax evasion significantly less than men. Support declined with age, and older people showed the greatest opposition. People who reported middle-income were the strongest supporters. Religion influenced the taxpayers’ attitudes, and significant differences in mean scores were found between Roman Catholics and those who did not belong to a religious denomination. Those not affiliated with a religion were characterized by a significantly higher acceptance of tax evasion. Religious people opposed tax evasion the most.

Keywords: tax evasion, tax morale, Poland, World Values Survey, ethics

JEL Classification: H26, E26, O17, J10, K40, K42, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Bolek, Monika and Shopovski, Jovan and McGee, Robert W., Attitudes toward Tax Evasion in Poland (September 28, 2023). Studia Prawno-Ekonomiczne (Studies in Law and Economics), 128, 95-116 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4637212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R W Mcgee , R W Mcgee
The ethics of tax evasion: Perspectives in theory and practice
Attitudes on the Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Philosophy Professors , p. 125 - 132 Posted: 2012-01
G Banham
Kant and the Ethics of Taxation
Ethics and Public Policy , volume 13 , p. 375 - 446 Posted: 2012
R F Van Brederode
The Morality of Forced Tax Collection
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy , issue 9 Posted: 2008
M B Armstrong , J Robison , R W Mcgee
Ethics in Taxation
The Ethics of Tax Evasion , p. 330 - 348 Posted: 1998-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies