Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre-Populated Tax Returns: Individual Taxpayer Adoption and the Effect on Compliance

Behavioral Research in Accounting

Posted: 13 Dec 2023

Jason Schwebke

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

William Brink

Independent

Victoria Hansen

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington

Charles Kelliher

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: September 8, 2023

Abstract

We examine the effect of social influence on individuals’ likelihood of using an IRS pre-populated tax return system and the effects of social influence and filing method on individual taxpayer compliance. Our experiment manipulates social influence about the IRS pre-populated return system and the IRS itself (unfavorable or favorable) as well as filing method (IRS pre-populated return or IRS blank tax software) for a simulated tax return. Consistent with social influence theory, results indicate public opinion influences individuals’ likelihood of using an IRS pre-populated tax return system. Additionally, consistent with omission bias theory and prior research, individuals who use the IRS pre-populated return system are less compliant. Finally, favorable social influence mitigates the noncompliant behavior exhibited during the use of pre-populated returns when public opinion about both the pre-populated system and the IRS is favorable.

Keywords: pre-populated tax return, tax compliance, social influence, aggressiveness, evasion

Suggested Citation:

Schwebke, Jason and Brink, William and Hansen, Victoria and Kelliher, Charles, Pre-Populated Tax Returns: Individual Taxpayer Adoption and the Effect on Compliance (September 8, 2023). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4653250
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,966
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies