Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does choice matter? The effect of filing method autonomy on taxpayer aggressiveness in a pre-filled tax return system

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 43, 2024

42 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Jason Schwebke

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

While pre-filled tax filing systems are the norm in many European countries, individuals in the U.S. are accustomed to the autonomy and control associated with preparing their own tax return.
Taking that autonomy away by requiring individuals to use a pre-filled system could have
negative consequences. Prior research has shown that implementing a pre-filled system in the U.S.
may decrease compliance. Building on prior literature, results of an experiment manipulating
filing method (traditional vs. pre-filled) and autonomy (present vs. absent) indicate that taxpayers
who are given autonomy to choose the pre-filled system report significantly less aggressively than
those forced to use it. Given that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) revoked its promise not to
compete with tax preparation software companies—opening the door for an IRS-created pre-filled
filing system—this study has major implications for policymakers. Namely, policymakers would
have to decide whether to make a pre-filled tax return system voluntary or mandatory. This study
sheds light on the consequences of this policy decision.

Keywords: Aggressiveness, Autonomy, Pre-filled tax return, Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Schwebke, Jason, Does choice matter? The effect of filing method autonomy on taxpayer aggressiveness in a pre-filled tax return system (December 4, 2023). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 43, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4653240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J Alm , K M Bloomquist , M Mckee
On the external validity of laboratory tax compliance experiments
Economic Inquiry , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 1170 - 1186 Posted: 2015
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer information assistance services and tax compliance behavior
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
S W Anderson , H F Chang , M M Cheng , Y S Phua
Getting to know you: Trust formation in new interfirm relationships and the consequences for investments in management control and the collaboration
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 940 - 965 Posted: 2017
P P Baard , E L Deci , R M Ryan
Intrinsic need satisfaction: a motivational basis of performance and weil-being in two work settings 1
Journal of applied social psychology , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 2045 - 2068 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies