Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Re-distribution in an Educational Dual Economy

Forthcoming, International Journal of Economic Theory

39 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2023 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Michel Strawczynski

Hebrew University of Jerusalem _ Public Policy; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Eliezer Kaplan School of Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

By simulating optimal income marginal tax rates that take into account investment in education, this paper mimics inequality averse social planner's optimal redistributive policy in a dual economy; i.e., an economy composed by skilled workers that invest in higher education and unskilled workers that do not. The government confronts a dilemma: setting parameters that allow for cheap higher education that maximizes output, but at the same time creates a strongly unequal economy; or: not subsidizing higher education which drives to an economy with lower income inequality and higher re-distribution. The heart of this dilemma comes from the fact that in the latter case the demand for education becomes more rigid, allowing for enhanced re-distributive policy that raises social utility. My simulations show that when the government maximizes social welfare, the education subsidy is lower and average income tax rates rise with income. The maximizing output policy implies an implausible regressive scenario with declining average tax rates at the top. A Rawlsian social planner chooses not to subsidize higher education to achieve a more equal economy and maximize re-distributive tax revenues.

Keywords: Dual Economy, Optimal income tax, Education

JEL Classification: H21, H24, H52

Suggested Citation:

Strawczynski, Michel, Optimal Re-distribution in an Educational Dual Economy (December 4, 2023). Forthcoming, International Journal of Economic Theory, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4653148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4653148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
F Alvaredo , L Gasparini
Recent Trends in Inequality and Poverty in Developing Countries Posted: 2015
J Aitchison , J A C Brown
The Lognormal Distribution Posted: 1957
P Apps , N Van Long , R Rees
Optimal piecewise linear income taxation
Journal of Public Economic Theory , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 523 - 545 Posted: 2014
P Apps , R Rees , T O Thoresen , T E Vattø
Alternatives to Paying Child Benefit to the Rich: Means Testing or Higher Tax? Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
287
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies