Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reactions as Macroeconomic Barometer: Quantifying the TCJA's Effect on GDP and Wages

55 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Kevin Standridge

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: December 5, 2023

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) is one of the most significant US tax reforms in 40 years. However, we know little about the TCJA’s macroeconomic effects, presumably due to the difficulty in distinguishing the law’s effects from other factors that affect the macroeconomy. In this paper, I create a new methodology that allows a researcher to use firms’ market reactions to identify the effects of a macroeconomic shock on the broader economy. I apply this method to the TCJA to identify its effects on GDP and wages. I find that the TCJA increased GDP and total wages paid to employees by 2.2% and 3.4%, respectively. I find that the total wage increase was driven by a 1.7% increase in employment and a 1.3% increase in annual salaries. In other words, I find the TCJA created 2 million jobs and increased average annual salaries by $520.

Keywords: TCJA, Event Study, GDP, Wages, Employment, Tax

JEL Classification: H2, M41

Suggested Citation:

Standridge, Kevin, Market Reactions as Macroeconomic Barometer: Quantifying the TCJA's Effect on GDP and Wages (December 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4654649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4654649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Amiti , S H Kong , D Weinstein
The effect of the US-China trade war on US investment Posted: 2020
J D Angrist , G W Imbens , D B Rubin
Identification of causal effects using instrumental variables
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 91 , issue 434 , p. 444 - 455 Posted: 1996
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D J Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
W Arulampalam , M P Devereux , G Maffini
The direct incidence of corporate income tax on wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
704
RANK
521,427
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies