Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Information Exchange, Cross-Border Income Shifting, and the Physical Flow of Tangible Goods

56 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 29 Aug 2025

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Guoman She

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether mandatory tax information exchange agreements between governments have real effects on firms’ physical trade in tangible goods. We posit that some of the physical trade in tangible goods flowing through low-tax jurisdictions is intended to facilitate income shifting. As such, shocks to enforcement via mandatory information exchange agreements could cause firms to change the physical flow of goods. Utilizing firm-level shipping container data, we find that adoption of bilateral Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs) between the U.S. and a foreign jurisdiction is associated with a significant decrease in the volume of imports by U.S. firms from that jurisdiction. We also find reallocation effects: U.S. firms increase imports from jurisdictions in the same subregion as the treated jurisdiction, resulting in minimal overall change in total imports. To our knowledge, ours is the first study to document a connection between enforcement-related tax disclosure, income shifting, and physical trade flows.

Keywords: income shifting, tax planning, international trade, tangible goods, environment

JEL Classification: JEL Codes: F14, F18, F23, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Chow, Travis and Maydew, Edward L. and She, Guoman, Mandatory Information Exchange, Cross-Border Income Shifting, and the Physical Flow of Tangible Goods (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4655783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4655783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
L Alfaro , P Conconi , F Kamal , Z Kroff
Trade within Multinational Boundaries Posted: 2025
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D Taylor
The Economics of Managerial Taxes and Corporate Risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
M Barth
Accounting in 2036: A Learned Profession
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 6 , p. 383 - 385 Posted: 2018
M Baumann , T Böhm , B Knoll , N Riedel
Corporate Taxes, Patent Shifting, and Antiavoidance Rules: Empirical Evidence
Public Finance Review , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 504 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
235,913
1 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies