Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Students’ professional identity and a fully online tax clinic

in International Handbook on Clinical Tax Education, Amy Lawton, Annette Morgan, David Massey and Donovan Castelyn (Eds) (University of London Press, London, 2023), Chapter 17: pp 240-258. https://uolpress.co.uk/book/international-handbook-on-clinical-tax-education/

30 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2023

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Colin Perryman

Griffith University

Kristin Thomas

Griffith University

Ashliegh Cohen

Griffith University

Date Written: December 7, 2023

Abstract

A key benefit of work-integrated learning is the socialisation of students with their future professional career and identity. That is, students can start to appreciate what it means to be a professional in their chosen career, in terms of their conduct and how they identify with that. Due to the advent of restrictions imposed from the outbreak of COVID-19, the students involved at the Griffith University tax clinic had to move from a physical office space with face-to-face interaction with their tax agent supervisor and clients, to a totally online office via Microsoft Teams and YouTube. Activities conducted within this online environment included staff meetings, client meetings, client lodgements, presentations and research.

However, what effect did this online office environment have on the development of students’ professional identity as tax advisers? This chapter will describe how the tax clinic was able to operate fully online, and it will provide data as to how students perceived the development of their professional identity as a tax adviser in this online environment. To provide a comparison, data from prior cohorts who participated in the physical office space will also be considered.

Keywords: WIL, tax clinic, international student, self efficacy, professional identity

JEL Classification: I20, I24,K34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Belle Isle, Melissa and Perryman, Colin and Thomas, Kristin and Cohen, Ashliegh, Students’ professional identity and a fully online tax clinic (December 7, 2023). in International Handbook on Clinical Tax Education, Amy Lawton, Annette Morgan, David Massey and Donovan Castelyn (Eds) (University of London Press, London, 2023), Chapter 17: pp 240-258. https://uolpress.co.uk/book/international-handbook-on-clinical-tax-education/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4657032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies