Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Tax Footnote Disclosure Quality

74 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: December 8, 2023

Abstract

We examine trends in the disclosure quality of the income tax footnote in annual 10-K filings over the period 1996–2020. In contrast to claims by some practitioners and academics that the income tax footnote has become too complex, we document a marked increase in readability. Specifically, our results suggest that, while the quantity of textual disclosure in the income tax footnote has increased over time, the tax footnote has become more readable across several measures of readability. Changes in firm characteristics do not explain the improved trends in readability. We find some evidence suggesting that higher probabilities of regulatory scrutiny and shareholder litigation attenuate, but do not reverse, the trends in readability. We also find that the language used in the income tax footnote has become more similar among industry peers over time. Finally, we show that improved tax footnote readability is associated with reduced dispersion in analyst tax forecasts and stock price crash risk, consistent with improvements in tax disclosure reaping capital market benefits.

Keywords: disclosure; taxes; textual analysis; tax footnote

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Mayberry, Michael, Changes in Tax Footnote Disclosure Quality (December 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4658847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4658847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
J L Abernathy , F Guo , T R Kubick , A Masli
Financial statement footnote readability and corporate audit outcomes
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Why do CEOs hold so much equity? Working paper Posted: 2017
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax Reporting Behavior Under Audit Certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
381,120
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies