Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of the 2017 US International Tax Reform: A Survey of the Evidence

CESifo Working Paper No. 10802

28 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2023

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

The 2017 US tax legislation - widely referred to as the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA) - fundamentally transformed the US system of international taxation. It ostensibly ended worldwide taxation but introduced, for instance, a new tax on “Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income” (GILTI). This paper surveys the emerging empirical literature on the impact of the TCJA’s international provisions. It documents five robust findings in this empirical literature. First, the TCJA led to a general decline in US MNCs’ foreign acquisitions. Second, the TCJA increased US MNCs’ investment in routine foreign tangible assets. Third, the reform did not lead to any change in profit shifting by US MNCs beyond the magnitude that would be expected based on the TCJA’s tax rate reduction. Fourth, The TCJA appears to have reduced the market value of US MNCs relative to domestic US firms. Fifth, the TCJA does not appear to have had any detectable impact on domestic US investment and wages (although there are some contrary results for capital expenditures). The welfare implications of these findings depend crucially on whether US MNCs’ are viewed as having engaged in too much or too little foreign activity prior to the TCJA. This depends on the choice of theoretical framework and the relevant normative benchmark, and cannot readily be resolved empirically.

Keywords: international taxation, multinational firms, Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA), repatriation taxes, global intangible low-taxed income tax

JEL Classification: H250, F230

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, The Consequences of the 2017 US International Tax Reform: A Survey of the Evidence (2023). CESifo Working Paper No. 10802, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4659051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4659051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Foreign investment of US multinationals: The effect of tax policy and agency conflicts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 1 , p. 298 - 327 Posted: 2022
J F Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
The Real and Financial Effects of Internal Liquidity: Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Posted: 2023
E J Allen , S C Morse
Does Parenting Matter? US Parents, Non-US Parents, and Global Firm Taxes
Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 290 Posted: 2019
H Amberger , L A Robinson
The Initial Effect of US Tax Reform on Foreign Acquisitions
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
177,685
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies