Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Constraints and Tax Planning: International Evidence

54 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Mark E. Evans

Wake Forest University

Wei Shi

Deakin University

Kerui Zhai

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 10, 2023

Abstract

Firms experiencing financing constraints may increase tax planning if the associated cash savings outweigh any increased cost of capital caused by information asymmetry resulting from those tax planning activities. Prior research finds that US firms facing this trade-off engage in additional tax planning. We investigate this relation in an international setting and find opposite results. Specifically, we find a significantly negative association between tax planning and country-level financing constraints, suggesting that, outside the U.S., the transparency benefits of committing less tax planning outweigh any cash saving benefits. The effect is more pronounced in settings where transparency is already lacking and cost of capital is otherwise high. Overall, we show that U.S. firms are unique in their approach to tax planning when facing financing constraints, likely due to the U.S. penalty for tax planning being relatively low and the U.S. cost of capital being the lowest in the world.

Keywords: Financial constraints; Tax Planning; International; Government Debt

JEL Classification: H26, H63, G14, G15, G32

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Evans, Mark E. and Shi, Wei and Zhai, Kerui, Financial Constraints and Tax Planning: International Evidence (December 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4659946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4659946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
C Akkoyun , N Ersahin , C M James
Crowded out from the Beginning: Impact of Government Debt on Corporate Financing Posted: 2020
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home Country Tax System Characteristics and Corporate Tax Avoidance: International Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency , volume 94 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
884
RANK
399,022
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies