Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Energy Investment Tax Credits and Environmental Outcomes: Evidence from Electric Utilities

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4660606

64 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Jesse Chan

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Darci Fischer

University of Kentucky; Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

The Investment Tax Credit (“ITC”) is an essential part of U.S. policymakers’ strategy to encourage investment in renewable energy. We assess whether firms that claim ITC are aligned with policymakers’ goals by examining electric utilities from 2001 to 2022 using a stacked cohort difference-in-differences design. First, we confirm that the ITC affects cash tax, employment, and investment patterns. However, we find that ITC firms generate 12.3% less total electricity, both from nonrenewable and renewable sources, as compared to peers who never claim an ITC. This behavior reflects ITC firms’ substitution of coal and other renewable source fuels (e.g., hydroelectric, geothermal) with solar power. We also find that although ITC usage is negatively associated with total emissions, it is positively associated with emissions per unit of electricity generated. Overall, our analyses suggest that while ITC firms may reduce emissions by displacing coal with solar power, the ITC’s design may unintentionally distort resource allocation and partially reduce emissions through decreases in economic activity.

Keywords: investment tax credits, electric utilities, carbon emissions, ESG ratings

JEL Classification: M48, M14, H23, H54

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Jesse and Fischer, Darcia, Energy Investment Tax Credits and Environmental Outcomes: Evidence from Electric Utilities (April 15, 2024). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4660606, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4660606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4660606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Abgi
Section 48 Energy Investment Tax Credit Posted: 2025-04-22
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-indifferences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: a primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2022
M Bolinger , R H Wiser , K Cory , T James
PTC, ITC, or cash grant? An analysis of the choice facing renewable power projects in the United States Posted: 2009-04-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
292,525
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies