Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Government Tax Policy on the Growth of SMEs in Oman with special reference to the SMEs Located in Al-Dakhliya Region

15 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Badour Al Farsi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohamed Abdul Madhar

University of Technology and Applied Sciences/Nizwa college

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper discusses the relationship between tax policy and the growth of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with special reference to small and medium enterprises located in the interior region of the Sultanate of Oman. The country is currently focusing on the expansion of small and medium-sized businesses in order to boost its economy. In the past years, SME's have a significant impact on the Oman’s economy. The Omani Income Tax Laws designed to encourage business establishments especially for SMEs. The main objective of this paper is to study the growth of small and medium enterprises in Oman and government taxation policies. The researcher employed the descriptive research approach and methodical collecting of data and information relevant to the topic, as well as the statistical analysis procedure. The conclusion of this study is that taxation policies have affected the growth of small and medium-sized companies negatively. The most prominent suggestions include, creating an awareness about taxation policies among public, exempting or reducing tax rates for the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises and giving tax exemption during sudden pandemics such as the corona pandemic.

Keywords: Oman, Taxation, Small and medium enterprises, Growth, tax rates, SMEs

JEL Classification: G18

Suggested Citation:

Al Farsi, Badour and Madhar, Mohamed Abdul, Impact of Government Tax Policy on the Growth of SMEs in Oman with special reference to the SMEs Located in Al-Dakhliya Region (December 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4665952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4665952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
311,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies