Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implicit Land Taxes and Their Effect on the Real Economy

Darden Business School Working Paper

63 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Daniel Murphy

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Nathan Seegert

University of Utah - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 16, 2023

Abstract

We show empirically that land taxes are associated with higher density, neighborhood diversity, business formation, and other indicators of economic performance. To investigate land taxes empirically, we estimate implicit land taxes (or subsidies) for over 2,000 counties in the U.S. These implicit land taxes arise due to idiosyncratic discrepancies in the evaluation of land and structures between tax assessors and buyers and sellers in the market.  We find substantial dispersion in implicit land taxes across U.S. counties and within metropolitan areas. They are also highly persistent within counties. Finally, we develop a model of land taxes and endogenous population to rationalize our results.

Keywords: Land Tax

JEL Classification: R14, H71

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Daniel and Seegert, Nathan, Implicit Land Taxes and Their Effect on the Real Economy (December 16, 2023). Darden Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4666778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4666778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Albouy , G Ehrlich
Housing productivity and the social cost of land-use restrictions
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 107 , p. 101 - 120 Posted: 2018
F Alfaro , D Paredes , M Skidmore
Assessment of property tax reductions on tax delinquency, tax foreclosure, and home ownership. Working paper Posted: 2021
N Amornsiripanitch
Why are residential property tax rates regressive? Available at SSRN 3729072 Posted: 2020
J E Anderson
Property taxes and the timing of urban land development
Regional Science and Urban Economics , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 483 - 492 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
432,122
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden School of Business Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies