Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Circular Partnerships

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-46

90 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2023

Chris William Sanchirico

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School - Business Economics and Public Policy Department

Reed Shuldiner

University of Pennsylvania Law School

Date Written: December 17, 2023

Abstract

Partners are responsible for the tax on income earned by their partnerships: whether or not actually distributed, the income “flows through” the partnership to its partners for tax purposes. A partnership can have partners that are also partnerships, and, recursively, partnership-partner chains of any length may arise. In such cases, the income continues to flow through the chain link by link. But such a chain may at some point return to the original partnership; a partnership may be an indirect partner in itself, and a flow-through cycle may thus be created. We study the phenomenon of partnership ownership cycles in light of the concern, recently expressed by prominent experts and policy makers, that a substantial amount of income goes untaxed as it “flows endlessly between partnerships that own each other.” We examine the best empirical research on circular partnerships and find that, despite how that work has been deployed in policy discourse, it has little to say on the specific question of how much income is trapped in circular partnership structures. We then examine such structures from both a mathematical and legal perspective in order to gain a better understanding of the precise nature of the problem. We find that current law goes farther than one might imagine toward preventing untaxably trapped income. Where we judge current law to be inadequate or inappropriate, we suggest reforms.

Keywords: Partnership taxation, Pass-through taxation, Tax-transparent entities, Circular partnerships, Circular partnership structures, Partnership cycles, Ownerships cycles, Unsolved partnerships, Superseding returns, Centralized Partnership Audit Regime, CPAR, BBA, Administrative Adjustment Requests, AAR

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H26, K22, C60, C65, C63

Suggested Citation:

Sanchirico, Chris William and Shuldiner, Reed, Circular Partnerships (December 17, 2023). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 23-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4667243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4667243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
I R C
§ 6227, there is no "pull-in" variant, under which the partnership-level tax would be adjusted for payments made by partners. Such an opDon is available in analogous audiDng procedures, per I.R.C. § § 6225-6226
Treas. Reg. § , volume 301 , issue 2
Note that certain posiDve and negaDve amounts may offset each other if they are within the same partnership. Therefore, there may be opportuniDes to minimize tax by coordinaDng the Dming of partnership-level payments and push-outs
Thus
On that issue, see Sanchirico, Chris William and Shuldiner, Reed, Deferring Income with Tiered and Circular Partnerships
Inst for Law & Econ Research Posted: 2024-08-25
M Harve , Norlyn D Lewis , Miller
BNA, Tax Management Por~olio 629-1st: The Partnership Audit Rules Under the BiparDsan Budget Act, VI.E. Furthermore, assuming that all taxpayers have received filing extensions allows us to avoid several delicate and apparently unseQled Dming quesDons that are not central to our analysis Posted: 2015-03-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
RANK
246,365
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies