Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigation of Spillover Effects of a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax on Beverage Purchasing in a Nearby, Non-Taxed Area: A Quasi-Experimental, Difference-in-Differences Analysis

44 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2023

Leah Neff Warner

University of Washington - School of Public Health

Melissa Knox

University of Washington

Mandy Fretts

University of Washington

Brian Saelens

Seattle Children's Research Institute

Jessica Jones-Smith

University of Washington

Date Written: October 27, 2023

Abstract

Background: Evidence suggests that sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) taxes reduce SSB purchasing and improve health outcomes in the taxed area. The extent to which purchasing also changes in nearby communities due to tax signaling effects is unclear. We assessed whether the SSB tax in Seattle, Washington, USA, influenced SSB purchasing in nearby communities within the same media market.

Methods: We used retail scanner data on weekly sales of 3,531 beverages from 127 retailers in King County excluding Seattle and its bordering area (KC), and 243 retailers in a matched comparison outside the regional media market. We estimated linear difference-in-differences in mean volume sold of taxed and nontaxed beverages comparing two years before (2016-2017) and after tax implementation (2018-2019) adjusting for beverage-level fixed effects. We also estimated the difference-in-differences in Seattle versus a matched comparison to estimate the tax effect in Seattle as context for potential spillover effects.

Results: For taxed beverages, the mean difference-in-differences in volume sold from pre-tax to post-tax in KC was 171.9 liters (95% CI: -1396.1, 1739.8; p=0.830), reflecting a 1% change from the pre-tax mean in KC for a given beverage. There was suggestive evidence of increased volume sold for regular and diet soda, and taxed multipack beverages in KC relative to the comparison area. In Seattle, the mean difference-in-differences in volume sold for taxed beverages was -3628.0 liters (95% CI: -4622.1, -2633.9; p<0.001), reflecting a 20% decline in association with the tax.

Conclusion: We did not find evidence of spillover effects in the form of reduced volume sold of SSBs in communities near but not bordering the tax in Seattle. Studies in other contexts are needed to investigate spillover on purchasing as well as possible changes to marketing in nearby areas that may explain observed increases in sales of taxed and nontaxed soda.

Keywords: sugar-sweetened beverages, policy evaluation, taxes

Suggested Citation:

Neff Warner, Leah and Knox, Melissa and Fretts, Amanda and Saelens, Brian and Jones-Smith, Jessica, Investigation of Spillover Effects of a Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax on Beverage Purchasing in a Nearby, Non-Taxed Area: A Quasi-Experimental, Difference-in-Differences Analysis (October 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4668237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4668237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
584
RANK
730,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Health Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies