Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax-Elasticity of Tangible Fixed Assets: Heterogeneous Effects of Homogeneous Tax Policy Changes

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-25

61 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2023

Georg Thunecke

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Sean Mc Auliffe

University of Tübingen; Research School of International Taxation (RSIT)

Georg Wamser

University of Tübingen

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

This paper develops a new approach to calculate country-industry-year-specific forward-looking effective tax rates (FLETRs) based on a panel of 19 industries, 221 countries, and the years 2001 to 2020. Besides statutory corporate tax rate and tax base determinants, the FLETRs account for typical country-industry-specific financing structures as well as asset compositions. We show that FLETRs suffer from significant measurement error when the latter information is neglected, owing primarily to inappropriately assigned asset weights to statutory depreciation allowances.

Our empirical analysis exploits the substantial variation in FLETRs over time to provide estimates of the tax semi-elasticity of corporate investment in tangible fixed assets. Based on more than 24 million firm-entity observations, our results suggest a statistically significant tax semi-elasticity of -0.41, which is at the lower end of previous findings. We further show that different subgroups of firms respond very heterogeneously to tax incentives.

Keywords: Corporate taxation, depreciation allowances, effective marginal tax rates, investment responses, predictive mean matching

JEL Classification: H25, H32, F23

Suggested Citation:

Thunecke, Georg and Auliffe, Sean Mc and Wamser, Georg, The Tax-Elasticity of Tangible Fixed Assets: Heterogeneous Effects of Homogeneous Tax Policy Changes (December 20, 2023). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
Internal capital networks as a source of MNC competitive advantage: Evidence from foreign subsidiary capital structure decisions
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 409 - 439 Posted: 2008
T Chaney , D Sraer , D Thesmar
The collateral channel: How real estate shocks affect corporate investment
American Economic Review , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 2381 - 2409 Posted: 2012
R S Chirinko , S M Fazzari , A Meyer
How responsive is business capital formation to its user cost? An exploration with micro data
Journal of Public Economics , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 1999
J G Cummins , K A Hassett , R G Hubbard , R E Hall , R J Caballero
A reconsideration of investment behavior using tax reforms as natural experiments
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 , p. 1 - 74 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
744
RANK
730,413
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies