Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Consumers Paying the Bill? How International Tax Competition Affects Consumption Taxation

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-26

33 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2023

Georg Thunecke

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates whether governments are substituting from corporate to consumption taxation due to tax competition using a novel self-collected data set of corporate and consumption tax regime information. I estimate the slope of the tax policy reaction function between corporate and consumption tax rates exploiting the cross-sectional interdependence of corporate tax rates for an instrumental variable approach. Additionally, I analyze the rate-revenue relationship of both tax instruments to evaluate the overall revenue implications of corporate tax competition. I find that, on average, a one percentage point decrease in the corporate tax rate leads to a 0.35 percentage point increase in the consumption tax rate. The rate-revenue relationship of both corporate and consumption tax rates follows an inverted U-shape. Furthermore, governments can fully compensate for revenue losses from tax competition by substituting to consumption taxation. These results indicate that the debate on corporate tax competition may overstate efficiency considerations and underestimate equity concerns.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, Consumption Taxation, Tax Competition, Fiscal Externality, Revenue Effects

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H25, F68

Suggested Citation:

Thunecke, Georg, Are Consumers Paying the Bill? How International Tax Competition Affects Consumption Taxation (December 21, 2023). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4672591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4672591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Arezki , A Dama , G Rota-Graziosi
Revisiting the relationship between trade liberalization and taxation
Working Paper Series , volume 349 Posted: 2021
R M Bird , N E Slack
International handbook of land and property taxation Posted: 2004
Bloomberg
OECD sees global minimum accord improving tax system: Cormann Posted: 2021
D F Bradford
What should be taxed: Income or expenditure , p. 77 - 113 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
825
RANK
614,410
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies