Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cashless Payments and Tax Evasion: Evidence From VAT Gaps in the EU

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 60

29 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2023

Albrecht Bohne

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Antonios Koumpias

University of Michigan at Dearborn - Department of Social Sciences

Annalisa Tassi

Fondazione Bruno Kessler; Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

This paper explores the connection between the proliferation of cashless, or e-money, payments and value-added tax (VAT) compliance. We present both visual and descriptive evidence that illustrates a negative correlation between e-money use and VAT evasion, proxied by the VAT compliance gap for countries in the European Union, from 2001 until 2021. We find that increased e-money usage by 100 percentage points (pp) is associated with a reduction in the VAT gap of 0.3pp or 1.92% of the aggregate VAT compliance gap over time. Moreover, we contribute a novel estimate of the causal impact of cashless payments on VAT evasion during the COVID-19 public health emergency. We identify a link between mobility restrictions in the European Union and reductions in VAT compliance gaps, facilitated by changes in payment norms. An estimated rise of 1pp or 5.51% in e-money use results in an 11.9% reduction in the VAT compliance gap. Our findings suggest that changes in transaction payment behavior such as the adoption of cashless payments may yield significantly more tax revenues by curbing non-compliance. Policies aimed at promoting e-money usage and limiting cash circulation are relevant steps forward in this direction.

Keywords: Tax evasion, VAT gap, cashless payments, e-money, mobility restrictions, COVID-19 pandemic

JEL Classification: H26, K42

Suggested Citation:

Bohne, Albrecht and Koumpias, Antonios and Tassi, Annalisa, Cashless Payments and Tax Evasion: Evidence From VAT Gaps in the EU ( 2023). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4672062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4672062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Alognon , A M Koumpias , J Martinez-Vazquez
The impact of plastic money use on vat compliance: Evidence from eu countries , p. 5 - 26 Posted: 2021
N Artavanis , A Morse , M Tsoutsoura
Measuring income tax evasion using bank credit: Evidence from greece
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 2 , p. 739 - 798 Posted: 2016
A K Bartscher , S Seitz , S Siegloch , M Slotwinski , N Wehrhöfer
Social capital and the spread of covid-19: Insights from european countries
Journal of health economics , volume 80 Posted: 2021
C F Baum , M E Schaffer , S Stillman
Enhanced routines for instrumental variables/generalized method of moments estimation and testing
The Stata Journal , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 465 - 506 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
RANK
381,120
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies