Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Taxation and Hours Worked in Different Types of Entrepreneurship

IZA Discussion Paper No. 16683

63 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2023 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Ege Can

University of Alabama in Huntsville

Frank M. Fossen

University of Nevada, Reno - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Abstract

We investigate the effect of personal income tax (PIT) rates on the number of hours entrepreneurs work weekly. Using the rotating panel data from the Annual Social and Economic Supplement of the Current Population Survey from 2003 to 2019, we estimate instrumental variable regressions in first differences to exploit changes in the tax code for identification. We distinguish between self-employed owners of incorporated versus unincorporated businesses and examine their differential responses. The findings reveal that higher individual-specific marginal PIT rates increase the hours worked among entrepreneurs with incorporated businesses, which could be explained by the availability of tax avoidance strategies. Among unincorporated entrepreneurs, we find a significant response to PIT rates in hours worked only for those who work 50 or more hours per week.

Keywords: income taxes, entrepreneurship, self-employment, labor supply, incorporated, unincorporated

JEL Classification: H24, H25, J22, J23, L26

Suggested Citation:

Can, Ege and Fossen, Frank M., Income Taxation and Hours Worked in Different Types of Entrepreneurship. IZA Discussion Paper No. 16683, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4673966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
K G Abraham , J C Haltiwanger , C Hou , K Sandusky , J R Spletzer
Reconciling survey and administrative measures of self-employment
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 825 - 860 Posted: 2021
K G Abraham , J C Haltiwanger , K Sandusky , J R Spletzer
Measuring the gig economy: Current knowledge and open issues. Measuring and Accounting for Innovation in the 21st Century Posted: 2017
Z Acs , D Audretsch
Entrepreneurship, innovation and technological change , volume 1 , p. 149 - 195 Posted: 2005
B Adhikari , J Alm , T F Harris
Small business tax compliance under third-party reporting
Journal of Public Economics , p. 203 - 104514 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
805,836
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies