Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Reputation, FDI, and Profit-Shifting

51 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2023

Yeonggyu Yun

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Abstract

Credible corporate tax announcement allows the government to exploit its reputation and impose a high tax rate by attracting investment, but amplifies tax distortion on investment as firms become more responsive to the announced tax rate. While the latter effect is outweighed by the first effect in a general model of corporate taxation with government reputation, introducing firms' profit-shifting makes the latter effect dominant. Reputation is modeled as the probability of government committing to the announced tax rate, and the optimal tax rate decreases in reputation when firms can shift profits across countries. This induces higher investment and less profit-shifting under higher levels of reputation. The model predictions are consistent with empirical facts on how government reputation is related to statutory corporate tax rate, foreign direct investment inflows, and multinational firms' profit-shifting.

Keywords: Commitment, Corporate income tax, foreign direct investment, Government reputation, Profit-shifting

Suggested Citation:

Yun, Yeonggyu, Government Reputation, FDI, and Profit-Shifting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Aguiar , M Amador
Growth in the shadow of expropriation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 651 - 697 Posted: 2011
M Azzimonti
The politics of FDI expropriation
International Economic Review , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 479 - 510 Posted: 2018
V Chari , P Kehoe , E Prescott
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Posted: 1988
F Delis , M D Delis , L Laeven , S Ongena
Global evidence on profit shifting within firms and across time Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
197
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies