Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Studying Social Justice of Taxes in Legal system of Afghanistan

9 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2024

Noor Mohammad Hashmat

Alberoni University

Abdul Malik Sediqi

Alberoni University

Date Written: December 25, 2023

Abstract

Tax justice is very important to the legitimacy of the tax system in Afghanistan. On the one hand, any taxes cannot be derived from the people without a legal basis, and on the other hand, the taxes should be fair and reasonable. Regarding taxes in Afghanistan, it seems that in some cases, the taxes consisting of direct and indirect taxes are not justifiable. The very major examples are the VAT (Value Added Tax), the tax on credit cards, and some tax on income in the legal system of Afghanistan. During determining tax, the tax authorities should evaluate the life and characteristics of taxpayers to determine whether they have the ability to pay tax or not. These are the concerns regarding the social justice of taxes. So, we are trying to find the response to this question: Is social justice respected and observed in the tax legal system of Afghanistan? No doubt, in some cases, the taxes in Afghanistan are not rightful. The economic conditions of people are not equal. Most people in Afghanistan are very poor. As a result, tax authorities should assess people's living conditions. In addition, the government should codify fair taxes for the people. The method of the research will be descriptive and analytical. The method of collecting data is librarianship. We reviewed books, articles, magazines, and the national laws of Afghanistan.

Keywords: Afghanistan, Legal System, Social Justice, Taxes

Suggested Citation:

Hashmat, Noor Mohammad and Sediqi, Abdul Malik, Studying Social Justice of Taxes in Legal system of Afghanistan (December 25, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4675318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4675318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Abdul Karim , N
Tax Justice and sustainable Development in the Arab Region
FORDFOUNDATION Posted: 2018
Nojumi Bariefelt , N
Bringing More Effective Governance to Afghanistan: 10 Pathways to Stability , volume XVII Posted: 2019
B Durankey
Taxation and social justice Posted: 2019
Frecknall , J Hughes
The Theory, Principle and Management of Taxation an Introduction, London and New York: Routledge Taylor and Francis Groups Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
RANK
682,707
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies