Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treaties and Denizenship Based Tax Systems

36 N.Y. Int’l L. Rev. 57 (2023)

30 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2024 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 26, 2023

Abstract

The current age of the global economy can be distinguished from the period following WWI by the increasing mobility of human capital, which calls for revisiting the international tax rules that were shaped and developed over a century ago. Following the end of WWI, developed countries placed extensive restrictions on cross-border migration (after a long period of approximately six decades in which cross-border movement of individuals was relatively free), which made the movement of individuals between countries relatively difficult. That is why throughout most of the twentieth century human capital mobility was considered relatively static, unlike financial capital that has become increasingly mobile starting from the second half of the twentieth century. However, over the past several decades, the mobility of both physical and human capital increased significantly, which inadvertently led to a fiercely regulatory race to the bottom (including the relaxation of the migration regulatory framework, the financial regulatory framework, and the tax regulatory framework).

This article addresses the tax implications and challenges that arise from the increasing mobility of human capital and focuses on a relatively recent migratory trend in which hundreds of millions of people leave their homes and families to establish permanent residency in a different country. Further, this article explores how, for various reasons, these migrants refrain from acquiring full membership status (citizenship) in the country of destination even though most of their home countries removed any limitations from acquiring and holding more than a single citizenship. In light of recent migratory trends, this article addresses personal jurisdiction issues and focuses on Article 4 definitions of “resident” of over 3,000 bilateral tax treaties. Issues pertaining to the need for additional measures concerning the territorial nexus, the reexamination of different source rules, and changes needed to the concept of permanent establishment exceed the scope of this article.

Keywords: Tax, International Tax, Tax Policy, Immigration, International Law, Denizenship, Tax Treaties

JEL Classification: K2, K33, K34, K37

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir and Narotzki, Doron, Tax Treaties and Denizenship Based Tax Systems (December 26, 2023). 36 N.Y. Int’l L. Rev. 57 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4676264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Crown
Tax on foreign income , volume 22 Posted: 2023
Crown
Statistical Commentary on Non-Domiciled Taxpayers in the UK Posted: 2023-07-06
Id
Arun Advani , David Burgherr , Andy Summers
Reforming the non-dom regime: revenue estimates, CAGE RSCH. CTR. (POLICY BRIEFING , volume 2 , p. 10 - 17 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
RANK
514,796
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies