Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing a Presumptive Income Tax Based on Turnover in Countries with Large Informal Sectors

IMF Working Paper No. 2023/267

47 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024 Last revised: 31 Jan 2024

Feng Wei

Shandong University

Jean-François Wen

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Abstract

Turnover (sales) is frequently used in developing countries as a presumptive income tax base, to economize on the costs of tax administration and taxpayer compliance. We construct a simple model where a size threshold separates firms paying turnover tax from those paying profit tax (regular income tax), and where firms have the option of producing in the untaxed, informal sector. The optimal turnover tax rate trades off two policy concerns: reducing informality and avoiding strategic reductions in sales by firms seeking to remain below the threshold for the profit tax. We provide analytical results and calibrate the model to compute the optimal policy using realistic parameter values. The optimal turnover tax rate for countries with large informal sectors is found to be around 2.5% across most scenarios, while the threshold separating the turnover tax regime from profit tax lies for the most part between $65,000 and $95,000. Introducing an optimally designed turnover tax reduces the rate of informality of businesses by about 12 percentage points in the calibrated model.

Keywords: Turnover Tax, Corporate Income Tax, Compliance Costs, Informality, turnover tax rate, profit tax, policy concern, IMF working paper 23/267, presumptive income tax, Sales tax, Presumptive tax, Tax return filing compliance, Sub-Saharan Africa

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H32, O17, H20, H26, H24

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Feng and Wen, Jean-François, Designing a Presumptive Income Tax Based on Turnover in Countries with Large Informal Sectors. IMF Working Paper No. 2023/267, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.5089/9798400264566.001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Aga , M Jolevski , S Muzi
Insights from enterprise surveys: Including the informal economy in policy responses to covid-19 Posted: 2020
N C Benjamin , A A Mbaye
The informal sector, productivity, and enforcement in west africa: A firm-level analysis
Review of Development Economics , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 664 - 680 Posted: 2012
M C Best , A Brockmeyer , H J Kleven , J Spinnewijn , M Waseem
Production versus revenue efficiency with limited tax capacity: theory and evidence from pakistan
Journal of Political Economy , volume 123 , issue 6 , p. 1311 - 1355 Posted: 2015
R M Bird , E M Zolt
Technology and taxation in developing countries: From hand to mouse
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies