Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Authority Monitoring and Equity Pricing: A Revision to Prior Inferences

44 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Patrick Hopkins

Texas Christian University

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

James Stekelberg

Colorado State University, Fort Collins

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We re-examine the role of tax authority monitoring in equity pricing. Prior research documents a negative association between IRS audit probability and the cost of equity capital. In contrast, when using improved IRS audit probability data and two firm-specific proxies for tax authority monitoring, we find a positive association between tax authority monitoring and the cost of equity capital. When we reconcile our results to prior literature, we find that a non-linear association between firm size and the cost of equity potentially accounts for these contradictory conclusions. Our results imply that, on average, shareholders believe that the possible negative consequences of tax authority monitoring (e.g., increased tax cash outflows) outweigh the potential value-enhancing consequences of tax authority monitoring (e.g., reduced managerial rent extraction). Consistent with this interpretation, our results are stronger among firms with the opportunity to engage in international transfer pricing, a potentially lucrative but highly scrutinized form of tax avoidance. Finally, we find some evidence suggesting shareholders positively value tax authority monitoring in the absence of other external monitors.

Keywords: Cost of Capital, Tax Authority Monitoring, External Monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick and Lusch, Stephen J. and Stekelberg, James, Tax Authority Monitoring and Equity Pricing: A Revision to Prior Inferences. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4683896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4683896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
H Akamah , X Song
Does the IRS pay attention to cash tax avoidance? Working paper Posted: 2019
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
411
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies