Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The TCJA and Domestic Corporate Tax Rates

FEDS Working Paper No. 2023-78

29 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2024

Christine Dobridge

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Patrick Kennedy

University of California, Berkeley - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Government of the United States of America - Joint Committee on Taxation

Paul Landefeld

Joint Committee on Taxation, U.S. Congress

Jacob Mortenson

Joint Committee on Taxation, US Congress

Date Written: December, 2023

Abstract

We study changes in tax positions for U.S. C corporations following passage of the 2017 tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). While existing research has focused primarily on publicly traded companies, data limitations have prevented more holistic analyses of the corporate sector. Using a representative sample of U.S. corporate tax returns, we highlight how trends in effective tax rates (ETRs) and exposure to the legislation's main provisions varied for public, private, multinational, domestic, and large versus small firms. We document several novel facts, including that ETRs increased on average for privately held, domestic firms and for firms in the bottom 90% of the firm sales distribution after TCJA. In contrast, public, multinational, and large firms saw substantial ETR cuts on average. We find that firms' pre-TCJA exposure to changes in the corporate tax rate and treatment of net operating losses have the strongest correlation with post-TCJA ETR changes. Overall, the analysis underscores the divergent impacts of TCJA on different firm types and illuminates the economic scope and relative significance of TCJA's myriad provisions.

Keywords: Corporate taxes, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Tax reform

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Dobridge, Christine and Kennedy, Patrick and Landefeld, Paul and Mortenson, Jacob, The TCJA and Domestic Corporate Tax Rates (December, 2023). FEDS Working Paper No. 2023-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.17016/FEDS.2023.078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,146
RANK
263,504
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Research Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies