Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inheritance, Wealth Distribution, and Estate Taxation

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2024

Guo Yanran

University of Queensland

Abstract

The estate tax has been considered by its supporters as a natural way to reduce wealth inequality because it targets the affluent directly. This paper documents that the relative importance of inheritance is less significant for wealthy heirs, as they inherit less relative to their wealth. Notably, over half of the richest one percent report receiving no inheritance at all. Then, in a quantitative model that accounts for these novel facts on inheritance received by the rich, this paper finds that the impact of estate taxation on wealth redistribution and overall welfare is small. Even with a hypothetical 100% estate tax rate, the wealth share of the top one percent would only decrease by 3.5 percentage points. The estate tax rate that maximizes welfare achieves a gain of only 0.24%, as measured by the consumption equivalent variation. Furthermore, the analysis indicates that estate taxation, compared to other major tax reforms, such as the top income taxation, incurs a greater loss in aggregate output for an equivalent amount of wealth redistribution, suggesting that despite its direct targeting of the affluent, estate taxation may not be an effective tool for wealth redistribution.

Keywords: inheritance, household wealth, inequality, estate taxation

Suggested Citation:

Yanran, Guo, Inheritance, Wealth Distribution, and Estate Taxation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4684342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
O P Attanasio , J Banks , C Meghir , G Weber
Humps and bumps in lifetime consumption
Journal of Business & Economic Statistics , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 35 Posted: 1999
L Bach , L E Calvet , P Sodini
Rich pickings? risk, return, and skill in household wealth
American Economic Review , volume 110 , issue 9 , p. 2703 - 2747 Posted: 2020
J Benhabib , A Bisin , M Luo
Wealth distribution and social mobility in the us: A quantitative approach
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 5 , p. 1623 - 1647 Posted: 2019
J Brown , S Weisbenner
Intergenerational Transfers and Savings Behavior , p. 181 - 204 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
RANK
627,303
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies