Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moral and Cultural Perspectives of Tax Evasion in Latin America

Susana Vittadini Andres (2024). Moral and Cultural Perspectives of Tax Evasion in Latin America. In R.W. McGee & J. Shopovski (Eds.). The Ethics of Tax Evasion, Volume 2: New Perspectives in Theory and Practice. Springer.

18 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2024

Susana N. Vittadini Andres

Tamkang University

Date Written: January 7, 2024

Abstract

This chapter discusses the historical and cultural factors that influenced the current attitude toward tax evasion in a number of Latin American countries. Most Latin American countries share a common past as a result of bring conquered by Spain. Therefore, they present some similar patterns in terms of political and institutional aspects and their history between the sixteenth and early nineteenth centuries, when most independence movements took place. Currently, there are still certain aspects of Spanish policies towards those territories that can partially and historically explain the current situation, enabling us to understand more about tax evasion in the region. It cannot be said that such policies were the same in all cases, because specific policies were put into effect very often whenever Spanish authorities recognized them as necessary to rule the colonies. In any case, there is no doubt that they formed a part of certain values, within the culture and morality, connected to social, political, and institutional issues, as well as giving rise and even serving as a “justification” for tax evasion.

Keywords: tax evasion, culture, Latin America, colonialism

JEL Classification: E26, H26, O17, O54, K42, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Vittadini Andres, Susana N., Moral and Cultural Perspectives of Tax Evasion in Latin America (January 7, 2024). Susana Vittadini Andres (2024). Moral and Cultural Perspectives of Tax Evasion in Latin America. In R.W. McGee & J. Shopovski (Eds.). The Ethics of Tax Evasion, Volume 2: New Perspectives in Theory and Practice. Springer. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4686858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4686858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
K J Andrien
Corruption, Inefficiency, and Imperial Decline in the Seventeenth-Century Viceroyalty of Peru
The Americas , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
M Bergman
Tax evasion and the rule of law in Latin America. The political culture of cheating and compliance in Argentina and Chile Posted: 2010
S Blackburn
Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, 2 nd Posted: 2008
F W Blackmar
Essays in Colonial Finance by Members of the
Spanish Colonial Policy. Publications of the American Economic Association , volume 1 , p. 112 - 143 Posted: 1900
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
RANK
549,213
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies