Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manufacturing Investment and Employee Earnings: Evidence from Accelerated Depreciation

84 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024 Last revised: 5 Sep 2025

Yige Duan

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management; University of British Columbia (UBC) - Vancouver School of Economics

Terry Moon

University of British Columbia

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

This paper assesses the effects of a tax policy designed to induce manufacturing investment on employee earnings. Following the accelerated depreciation policy in Canada, which lowers the costs of acquiring machinery or equipment, treated firms increase manufacturing investment and employment. However, earnings of incumbent workers at treated firms decrease on average, primarily driven by displaced or low-skill workers. Furthermore, both the skill ratio and skill premium increase within the firm, providing evidence of skill-biased technological change. Our findings suggest that a tax policy promoting manufacturing investment may contribute to increases in wage inequality both within and across firms.



Keywords: Investment Decisions, Business Taxes and Subsidies, Fiscal Policies and Behavior of Economic Agents, Firms, Wage Level and Structure, Saving and Capital Investment.

JEL Classification: G11, H25, H32, J31, O16

Suggested Citation:

Duan, Yige and Moon, Terry, Manufacturing Investment and Employee Earnings: Evidence from Accelerated Depreciation (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4692295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4692295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
John M Abowd , Francis Kramarz , David N Margolis
High Wage Workers and High Wage Firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
Daron Acemoglu , David Autor , David Card , Orley Ashenfelter
Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Employment and Earnings
Handbook of Labor Economics , volume 4 , p. 1043 - 1171 Posted: 2011
David Arnold , Kevin Milligan , Terry S Moon , Amirhossein Tavakoli
Job Transitions and Employee Earnings After Acquisitions: Linking Corporate and Worker Outcomes Posted: 2024
Arulampalam , Michael P Wiji , Giorgia Devereux , Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Adrian Lerche
Direct and Indirect Effects of Investment Tax Incentives
American Economic Review , volume 115 , issue 8 , p. 2781 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
545,548
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies