Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRMAA: Resistance is Futile

25 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2024

Edward F. McQuarrie

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Date Written: January 19, 2024

Abstract

Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amounts act as a penalty that falls most heavily on the mass affluent retiree whose income would otherwise be taxed at 22% or 24%. After age 62, if retirement income is high enough, action to avoid future IRMAA charges may incur IRMAA charges today. I find that the costs of this action will typically exceed future savings, relative to accepting the inevitable and paying future IRMAA as owed year by year. This paper documents the futility, in present value terms, of IRMAA-incurring Roth conversions aimed at averting future IRMAA by reducing Required Minimum Distributions. The paper concludes with a consideration of how Qualified Charitable Distributions can ameliorate the impact of IRMAA for those who cannot escape it.

Keywords: IRMAA, retirement income, tax torpedo, Roth conversions, QCD

JEL Classification: H24

Suggested Citation:

McQuarrie, Edward F., IRMAA: Resistance is Futile (January 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4700784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4700784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
D C Brown , S Cederburg , M S O'doherty
Tax uncertainty and retirement savings diversification
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 712 Posted: 2017
T L Crain , J R Austin
An Analysis of the Tradeoff Between Tax Deferred Earnings in IRAs and Preferential Capital Gains
Financial Services Review , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 227 - 242 Posted: 1997
G Geisler
How to Avoid Paying Higher Medicare Premiums the First Two Years After Retiring
Journal of Financial Planning , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 66 - 71 Posted: 2021
E F Mcquarrie , J A Dilellio
The Arithmetic of Roth Conversions
Journal of Financial Planning , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 72 - 89 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
144,198
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies