Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Small Business Care? The Perception of Small Businesses and Their Literacy

Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 18(1), 16-58 (2023)

46 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2024

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

The way that taxpayers interact with a tax system is complicated to understand. There is some evidence that the way taxpayers perceive the tax system can influence the way they interact with it. This is particularly important for small business owners (SBOs), as they can be central to the operation of their business. This article considers the perception of SBOs in relation to usefulness of their business records and financial statements, and examines whether there is a relationship with the SBO’s literacy in terms of business tax, financial statements, computer accounting software (CAS) and their overall literacy. While there seems to be little relationship between perceptions and literacy, of all the literacies considered CAS literacy was at times the most significant.

Keywords: Tax compliance, literacy, perception, managerial benefit, small business

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, Do Small Business Care? The Perception of Small Businesses and Their Literacy (December 21, 2023). Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 18(1), 16-58 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4704308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies