Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Sports Betting on Cross-Border Substitution in Casino Gambling

Public Finance Review

40 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Ege Can

University of Alabama in Huntsville

Mark W. Nichols

University of Nevada, Reno

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

This paper tests for potential cross-border substitution in casino gambling between Illinois and Missouri due to the launch of sports betting in Illinois. Using casino-level gambling revenue and admissions data, difference-in-differences, event study analysis, and regression discontinuity design, our findings suggest that the launch of sports betting increased casino revenues and admissions in the Illinois casinos and decreased revenue and admissions in Missouri casinos close to the border of Illinois and Missouri. Thus, Missouri not only lost potential sports betting tax revenue, but also tax revenue from casino gambling revenue and admissions resulting from cross-border substitution between Missouri and Illinois after the launch of sports betting. The size of the lost casino and foregone sports betting tax revenues suggests Missouri and other states in similar circumstances are likely to experience continued fiscal pressure to legalize sports betting despite possible moral objections or an intent to minimize social costs through prohibition.

Keywords: Sports betting, Casino gambling, Cross-border substitution, Event-study design, Regression discontinuity design

JEL Classification: H71, L38, L83

Suggested Citation:

Can, Ege and Nichols, Mark W., The Effects of Sports Betting on Cross-Border Substitution in Casino Gambling (March 26, 2024). Public Finance Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4704220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4704220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M References Aga ; Ahlgren , M Dalbor , A Singh
Cross-State Substitution: Estimating the effect of the 2003 Illinois gaming tax restructuring on Indiana riverboat gaming volume in the Chicagoland region
UNLV Gaming Research & Review Journal , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 45 - 58 Posted: 2009
C Altruda
Legal US sports betting revenue, handle and state tax database Posted: 2024-03-21
M L Anderson
Subways, strikes, and slowdowns: The impacts of public transit on traffic congestion
American Economic Review , volume 104 , issue 9 , p. 2763 - 2796 Posted: 2014
S Athey , G W Imbens
Design-based analysis in difference-in-differences settings with staggered adoption
Journal of Econometrics , volume 226 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 79 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
801
RANK
467,335
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies