Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does tax literacy matter? The relationship between small business literacy and business performance and cash flow

Journal of Australian Taxation 25(1): 5 - 33

30 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2024

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: December 22, 2023

Abstract

Resource Based Theory would suggest that owners or managers who efficiently and effectively make use of internal resources and implement strategies in their businesses have a greater chance of realising a competitive advantage over others in the same industry. This research explores whether the internal resource of understanding business tax, financial statements and/or computer accounting software (CAS) by small business owners is related to their business success in the service sector. The results demonstrate that small businesses with a higher understanding of business tax and CAS achieve a higher value of gross annual revenue, as well as net annual income. These results are important in demonstrating the need for small business owners to improve their understanding of business tax and CAS can aid the overall success of their business.

Keywords: Small business, tax literacy, business performance, Resource Based Theory

JEL Classification: K34, H25, H21

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, Does tax literacy matter? The relationship between small business literacy and business performance and cash flow (December 22, 2023). Journal of Australian Taxation 25(1): 5 - 33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4704256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Melissa Belle , Isle , Brett Freudenberg
Calm Waters: GST and Cash Flow Stability for Small Businesses in Australia
Tax Research , volume 13 , issue 2 Posted: 2015
Wilson Peel , Howorth
, volume 8
E Chen , Michael Sinnewe , Kortt
Evidence of Migrant Business Ownership and Entrepreneurship in Regions Posted: 2018
Newman Wadesango , Charity Mwandambira , Ongayi Mhaka , Wadesango
Literature Review on the Impact of Tax Knowledge on Tax Compliance among Small Medium Enterprises in a Developing Country
International Journal of Entrepreneurship , volume 22 , issue 4 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
413,954
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies