Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Launch of Public Accounting Offshoring and Financial Reporting Quality

50 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Kaitlyn Kroeger

University of Iowa, Henry B. Tippie College of Business, Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

I study the effects of public accounting offshoring on financial reporting quality. Over the past two decades, public accounting firms have fundamentally modified their business models by offshoring a large portion of U.S. audit and tax work to shared services centers in India. Despite this major shift, we have almost no evidence of its effects on firms’ financial reporting. A stacked cohort difference-in-differences design with entropy balancing suggests the launch of an offshore model decreases financial reporting quality through increased restatements, particularly revision restatements. I also find that offshoring marginally decreases tax reporting quality. In analyses of the intended consequences of offshoring, I find the counterintuitive result that the launch of an offshoring model is associated with increases to client fees as well as increases to the audit firm’s local industry market share, client count and tax planning effectiveness. Together, my results suggest that offshoring leads to some initial lapses in quality, a finding that should interest regulators, practitioners, shareholders and managers.

Keywords: audit, tax, public accounting, offshoring, financial reporting quality

Suggested Citation:

Kroeger, Kaitlyn, The Launch of Public Accounting Offshoring and Financial Reporting Quality (September 30, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4705489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4705489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
the demand for public accounting recruits
L M Andiola , D H Downey , B C Spilker , T J Noga
An examination of the interactive effect of feedback source and sign in the offshoring environment: A social identity perspective
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2018
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,705
RANK
138,019
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies