Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Evasion Savings versus Unlawful Predicate Proceeds: A Substance-Based Approach

Journal of Money Laundering Control, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2024

Deen Kemsley

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Sean Kemsley

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 11, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: Our objective is to determine whether tax evasion savings qualify as unlawful proceeds for money laundering purposes. Litigators, regulators, and academics have debated the question for decades. A common argument is that tax evasion allows a bad actor to save money that the perpetrator already has on hand. It does not produce a new inflow of wealth that could properly be classified as proceeds. We address the validity of this argument by using a substance-based approach.

Approach: We apply the substance-over-form principle and two specialized judicial doctrines to the matter: the economic-substance and step-transaction doctrines.

Findings: We find that in substance, tax evasion savings qualify as unlawful proceeds. The opposing argument may be valid on the surface, but it does not withstand the scrutiny of the substance-based principle and insights from the doctrines.

Originality: Using our unique substance-based approach, we demonstrate that a dollar of tax evasion savings is substantively equivalent to a dollar of unlawful tax refund proceeds for money laundering purposes. Focusing on an unlawful tax refund overcomes many of the common concerns raised against the treatment of tax evasion savings as unlawful proceeds.

Practical Applications: Our finding implies that any courts which value substance can embrace tax evasion savings as unlawful proceeds. Government prosecutors can adopt the position with confidence that substance backs them up. National regulators can push the point. The FATF can consider the option to more explicitly recommend treating tax evasion savings as unlawful proceeds for money laundering.

Keywords: taxation, tax evasion, money laundering

JEL Classification: G28, H24, H26, K14

Suggested Citation:

Kemsley, Deen and Kemsley, Sean, Tax Evasion Savings versus Unlawful Predicate Proceeds: A Substance-Based Approach (January 11, 2024). Journal of Money Laundering Control, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4706807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Bland
Economic Substance Doctrine: The Illusion and the Reality
Tax Notes at Posted: 2021
Allen Booz , Hamilton
Comparative evaluation of unexplained wealth orders Posted: 2010
M Bridges , P Green
Tax evasion and money laundering -an open and shut case?
Journal of Money Laundering Control , volume 3 , p. 51 - 56 Posted: 1999
M Bridges , P Green
Tax evasion: update on the proceeds of crime debate
Journal of Money Laundering Control , volume 3 , p. 371 - 372 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
682,707
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies