Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can We Predict Tax Dispute Outcomes? The Case of Promotional Expenses in Indonesia

Working Paper Series 23-11, 2023

36 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2024

Arifin Rosid

Directorate General of Taxation; Department of Accounting

Irfan Yulianto

Directorate General of Taxation

Date Written: November 7, 2023

Abstract

Tax disputes, along with their myriad variables and complexities, pose significant challenges to economic and legal predictability. The importance of accurately predicting outcomes cannot be ignored, especially in an era in which businesses and governments are increasingly reliant on data-driven decisions. Despite its significance, there is a lack of research in this area, particularly concerning promotional expenses. Examining 164 tax court decisions from 2016 to 2019, we propose a predictive model showing linkages between the value of disputes, types of adjustments by tax auditors, and types of disputes by tax-objection analysts, taxpayers, and tax judges. By adopting artificial neural networks (ANN), we offer a model with a predictive accuracy of 85%. The findings demonstrate that the value of tax disputes and categorization of tax disputes by tax judges and taxpayers are the three most influential predictors. This study suggests that certain legal and contextual factors significantly influence the likelihood of favorable outcomes for taxpayers. This paper not only offers a predictive model for businesses embroiled in similar disputes but also adds to the broader understanding of tax dispute dynamics. These insights are invaluable to policymakers, taxpayers, and legal practitioners, contributing to the evolving discourse on tax dispute resolution in Indonesia.

Keywords: tax disputes, promotional expenses, artificial neural networks (ANN)

JEL Classification: D22, K34, D83

Suggested Citation:

Rosid, Arifin and Yulianto, Irfan, Can We Predict Tax Dispute Outcomes? The Case of Promotional Expenses in Indonesia (November 7, 2023). Working Paper Series 23-11, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4719013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
References
F Agostinelli , M Hoffman , P Sadowski , P Baldi
Learning Activation Functions to Improve Deep Neural Networks. arXiv 2014 Posted: 2015
J Aritonang
Analisis Sengketa Pajak Atas Biaya Seragam (Studi Kasus Atas Putusan Peninjauan Kembali Nomor
Simposium Nasional Keuangan Negara , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 497 - 519 Posted: 2016
A Bahrammirzaee
A Comparative Survey of Artificial Intelligence Applications in Finance: Artificial Neural Networks, Expert Systems and Hybrid Intelligent Systems
Neural Computing and Applications , volume 19 , p. 1165 - 1195 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
RANK
366,348
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies