Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Planning and Prevention of Abuse

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 14. IBFD, 2008.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Luc De Broe

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 1, 2008

Abstract

A Study under Domestic Tax Law, Tax Treaties and EC Law in relation to Conduit and Base Companies.

This study considers how tax authorities attempt to strike down international tax avoidance structures in particular those involving the use of conduit and base companies set up by third country residents for purposes of “treaty shopping” and “EC-Directive shopping”. The book essentially focuses on the interaction between provisions and judicially developed doctrines of domestic tax law preventing international tax avoidance, on the one hand, and norms of international law, in particular tax treaties and rules of Community law, on the other hand.

This book also considers the treaty based anti-avoidance measures such as “beneficial ownership” - requirement and “limitation on benefits” - provisions. This part of the study is truly comparative, analyzing the case law of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, India, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.

Full book

Keywords: tax planning, anti-avoidance, treaty shopping, tax treaty, tax avoidance, beneficial ownership, LoB, case law, conduit company, base company, abuse of law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

De Broe, Luc, International Tax Planning and Prevention of Abuse (August 1, 2008). IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 14. IBFD, 2008., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720520
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
478
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies