Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Quality, Economic Development and the Performance of Vat

23 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2024

Romain Houssa

University of Namur

Kelbesa Megersa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We investigate the contribution of the Value-added tax (VAT) to tax revenue in a sample of 149 countries and examine how this performance is affected by institutional quality and economic development. Our panel data analysis shows that better institutional quality translates to higher revenue collection – even without VAT adoption. VAT adoption also improves tax revenue collection, even in a weak institutional environment such as in Sub-Saharan Africa, where some earlier studies were unable to find clear positive effects.

Keywords: value-added tax (VAT), tax revenue, tax reform, institutions economic development

Suggested Citation:

Houssa, Romain and Megersa, Kelbesa, Institutional Quality, Economic Development and the Performance of Vat. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4720959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies