Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Consumption Taxation of Digital Supplies

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 15. IBFD, 2009.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Pernilla Rendahl

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

Winner of the 2009 European Academic Tax Thesis Award awarded by the European Association of Tax Law Professors (EATLP).

This study compares cross-border consumption taxation of digital supplies in business-to-consumer transactions from an international coordination perspective. Hence, the various classifications of digital supplies and the provisions for deciding the place of taxation are compared and examined to identify cases of double taxation and unintentional nontaxation or potential risks thereof. In addition, possible remedies for double taxation and unintentional non-taxation are discussed.

The findings in this study are evaluated on the basis of rationality, which refers to the consumption taxation upholding the principles that are part of the OECD models and the Ottawa Taxation Framework Conditions. The analysis is based on an evaluation model derived from the principles that are part of the Framework Conditions. These principles are: neutrality, efficiency, certainty and simplicity, effectiveness and fairness, and flexibility.

Full book

Keywords: consumption tax, digital economy, e-commerce, services, VAT

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rendahl, Pernilla, Cross-Border Consumption Taxation of Digital Supplies (December 1, 2009). IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 15. IBFD, 2009., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4720543
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies