Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory CSR Disclosures on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

June Cao

University of Southampton

Abdifatah Ahmed Haji

Deakin University

Jinshuai Hu

Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Date Written: February 15, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether and how mandatory corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosures affect corporate tax avoidance. Using a CSR disclosure mandate in China that requires a subset of firms to disclose their CSR activities as an exogenous shock to CSR disclosures, our difference-in-differences analyses show that firms affected by the disclosure mandate engage in less tax avoidance relative to control firms. Additional analyses indicate that increased public scrutiny following the disclosure mandate is the likely channel through which mandatory CSR disclosures constrain tax avoidance. Cross-sectional analyses suggest that the effect of the disclosure mandate varies with institutional environments. Overall, our results indicate that the CSR disclosure mandate constrains corporate tax avoidance, which is consistent with mandatory CSR disclosures nudging firms toward more socially desirable behavior.

Keywords: Disclosure Regulation, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Tax Avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Cao, June and Haji, Abdifatah Ahmed and Hu, Jinshuai, The Effect of Mandatory CSR Disclosures on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from a Quasi-Natural Experiment (February 15, 2024). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4728385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4728385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
P F Back
Avoiding tax may be legal, but can it ever be ethical? The Guardian Posted: 2013
B Ballou , J H P.-C. Chen , D L Grenier , Heitger
Corporate social responsibility assurance and reporting quality: Evidence from restatements
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 188 Posted: 2018
C Bernardi , A W Stark
Environmental, social and governance disclosure, integrated reporting, and the accuracy of analyst forecasts
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 31 Posted: 2018
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , issue 5 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
Load more
1 Citations
No Name , Vishnu K Ramesh
Unveiling Tax Avoidance: Beware the Devil in the Guise of ESG Reforms
CORFIN-D-24-01070 · 55 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 17
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
RANK
222,076
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies