Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Adoption of BEPS Country-by-Country Reporting Affect Multinational Tax Avoidance? Evidence from Canada

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1007-1049

44 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2024

Anis Maaloul

TELUQ University of Quebec

Date Written: February 19, 2024

Abstract

Since 2016, Canadian multinational corporations (MNCs) with consolidated revenues exceeding € 750 million (equivalent to Cdn $1.1 billion) in the preceding fiscal year have been subject to country-by-country reporting (CbCR) under Canada’s adoption of action 13 of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project. The objective of this study is to examine empirically whether the adoption of the CbCR obligation has had an impact on the tax-avoidance practices of Canadian MNCs that are subject to this obligation—that is, whether there has been a reduction in tax avoidance by these MNCs since the adoption of CbCR. The study uses a sample that contains all publicly listed Canadian MNCs for a period of 10 years: 5 years before the adoption of CbCR (2011 to 2015) and 5 years after the adoption of CbCR (2016 to 2020). The sample is split into two groups: a treatment sample, which contains all the MNCs subject to the CbCR obligation, and a control sample, which contains all the MNCs that are not subject to this obligation. Using the difference-in-difference method, the study finds no evidence that the adoption of CbCR under BEPS action 13 has had an effect on tax avoidance by Canadian MNCs subject to this obligation. However, additional analyses by sector show that, contrary to expectations, MNCs subject to CbCR in the energy and materials sectors continued to avoid taxes even after the adoption of CbCR in 2016. In other words, the adoption of CbCR seems to have had no deterrent effect on tax avoidance by MNCs subject to this obligation in the energy and materials sectors. Since 2015, these two sectors have also been subject to another type of CbCR under the Canadian Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act. The study results, which are robust when tested by various measures of tax avoidance and CbCR, provide important feedback to Canadian tax authorities and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on the effectiveness/ineffectiveness of BEPS action 13.

Keywords: BEPS, REPORTING, TAX AVOIDANCE, MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS, CANADA REVENUE AGENCY

Suggested Citation:

Maaloul, Anis, Did the Adoption of BEPS Country-by-Country Reporting Affect Multinational Tax Avoidance? Evidence from Canada (February 19, 2024). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1007-1049, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
662
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies