Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: The Thresholds Set for Automobiles—Are Tax Policies Outdated in Light of New Challenges?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1111-1124

University of Montreal Faculty of Law Research Paper

14 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2024

Annick Provencher

University of Montreal - Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 19, 2024

Abstract

The Income Tax Act has often been criticized for its complexity and arbitrary distinctions. This article offers a reflection on two of these arbitrary thresholds related to automobiles: (1) the personal-use limit of 20,004 kilometres, to reduce the standby charge benefit; and (2) the ceiling for the capital cost of an automobile for the purposes of calculating the capital cost allowance. The article traces the historical evolution of these thresholds and argues that they may no longer align with their original tax policy objectives. The 20,004-kilometre limit, introduced to address situations of minimal personal use, seems to have deviated from this objective. The capital cost limit, designed to prevent the financing of luxury cars with public funds, raises questions about its sufficiency after years without adjustments. The author suggests that environmental considerations were likely not considered when these measures were introduced. In this context, she proposes that policy makers reconsider measures related to automobiles to account for social, economic, and environmental changes, especially considering Canada’s emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

Keywords: AUTOMOBILES, CAPITAL COST ALLOWANCE, EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, TAX POLICY

Suggested Citation:

Provencher, Annick, Policy Forum: The Thresholds Set for Automobiles—Are Tax Policies Outdated in Light of New Challenges? (February 19, 2024). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1111-1124, University of Montreal Faculty of Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies