Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nothing is Certain Except Death and Taxes: The Lack of Policy Uncertainty from Expiring “Temporary” Taxes

30 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

Andrew C. Chang

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Abstract

Do people expect extensions of statutorily temporary taxes? To answer this question,I look at the U.S. research and development tax credit, which was statutorilytemporary but was extended 10 times from 1996 to 2015. Using event studies andabnormal stock market returns, I find that, on average, market participants expectedthese extensions. I then use a text analysis of 8,000,000 news items and also find thatnonmarket participants expected these extensions. My results support the fact thatextensions of statutorily temporary tax policies are not a source of policy uncertaintyand, therefore, are also not fiscal shocks.

Keywords: Event Study, Expectations, Fiscal Policy, Research and Development, Sunset Provision, Tax Extenders, Temporary Tax, Uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Andrew C., Nothing is Certain Except Death and Taxes: The Lack of Policy Uncertainty from Expiring “Temporary” Taxes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J Kenneth , Arrow
Economic welfare and the allocation of resources for invention
The Rate and Direction of Inventive Activity: Economic and Social Factors , p. 609 - 626 Posted: 1962
R Scott , Nicholas Baker , Steven J Bloom , Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
National Bureau of Economic Research , issue 4 Posted: 2015
R Scott , Nicholas Baker , Steven J Bloom , Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
Olivier Blanchard , Roberto Perotti
An empirical characterization of the dynamic effects of changes in government spending and taxes on output
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , issue 4 , p. 1329 - 1368 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies