Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Tax Reform and Corporate Tax Avoidance: A Quasi-Natural Experiment Using China's Environmental Protection Tax Law

46 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2024

zhongbo Jing

Central University of Finance and Economics

Wei Zhang

Central University of Finance and Economics

Pengcheng Zhao

Central University of Finance and Economics

Yang Zhao

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Abstract

The implementation of China's Environmental Protection Tax Law (EPTL) since 2018 has granted local governments the autonomous discretion to adjust local environmental tax rates, prompting concerns about potential unintended consequences of the policy. This study employs a time-varying difference-in-differences (DID) method to investigate the impact of the EPTL on corporate tax avoidance, utilizing data from China’s A-share listed polluting firms spanning from 2015 to 2021. The findings unfold as follows: a) the EPTL substantially intensifies tax avoidance among polluting firms in areas with rising environmental tax rates. The policy's impact is more pronounced in firms with pre-existing extensive tax avoidance practices and does not significantly influence innovation inputs and outputs; b) this effect is primarily driven by companies with higher operational risks, political connections, and greater market bargaining power; c) the boosting effect of this policy is influenced by regional features and company characteristics; d) the results show that tax avoidance increases company value, which explaining the motivation behind corporate tax avoidance. This study furnishes pivotal empirical evidence for assessing the unintended consequences of the EPTL.

Keywords: Environmental regulation, Environmental Protection Tax Law, Corporate tax avoidance, Time-varying difference-in-differences method

Suggested Citation:

Jing, zhongbo and Zhang, Wei and Zhao, Pengcheng and Zhao, Yang, Environmental Tax Reform and Corporate Tax Avoidance: A Quasi-Natural Experiment Using China's Environmental Protection Tax Law. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
P Aghion , J Cai , M Dewatripont , L Du , A Harrison , P Legros
Industrial policy and competition
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
S Ambec , L Ehlers
Regulation via the Polluter-pays Principle
Econ. J , volume 126 , p. 884 - 906 Posted: 2016
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
J. Account. Econ , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
T Beck , R Levine , A Levkov
Big Bad Banks? The Winners and Losers from Bank Deregulation in the United States
J. Finance , volume 65 , p. 1637 - 1667 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
514,796
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies