Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinationals' Location, Financial and Real Responses to the EU-wide Implementation of CFC Rules by the ATAD

45 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2024 Last revised: 14 May 2024

Emilia Gschossmann

University of Mannheim

Alina Pfrang

University of Mannheim

Date Written: February 22, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the introduction of Controlled Foreign Company (CFC) rules by the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) in the European Union. Using firm-level data from Orbis for the years 2012 to 2020 and employing a difference-in-differences research design, we study whether the implementation of CFC rules in the context of the ATAD alters location, financial and economic activity decisions of multinational enterprises (MNEs). Our results reveal that the newly implemented CFC rules were only partly effective in reducing income shifting. While the share of CFC subsidiaries decreases, the financial income of the persisting subsidiaries remains largely
unchanged. Moreover, we observe positive effects on the costs of employees assigned to a CFC subsidiary, suggesting that the economic activity exemptions introduced by the ATAD allows MNEs to circumvent the rules by opting for a simple approach enhancing economic activity in these locations.

Keywords: CFC legislation, Tax avoidance, Multinational firms, Corporate taxation

JEL Classification: F23, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gschossmann, Emilia and Pfrang, Alina, Multinationals' Location, Financial and Real Responses to the EU-wide Implementation of CFC Rules by the ATAD (February 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4735272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4735272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Rosanne Altshuler , R G Hubbard
The Effect of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 on the Location of Assets in Financial Services Firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 127 Posted: 2003
Salvador Barrios , Harry Huizinga , Luc Laeven , Gaëtan Nicodème
International Taxation and Multinational Firm Location Decisions
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , issue 11-12 , p. 946 - 958 Posted: 2012
Katarzyna Bilicka , Michael Devereux , Irem Güceri
Tax Policy, Investment and Profit-Shifting Posted: 2023
Katarzyna Bilicka , Yaxuan Qi , Jing Xing
Real Responses to Anti-Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the UK Worldwide Debt Cap
Journal of Public Economics , volume 214 Posted: 2022-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,163
RANK
225,151
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies