Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Spillovers of Taxation in the Online Advertising Market. Theory and Evidence from Facebook

73 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2024

Andrea Lassmann

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz

Federica Liberini

Queen Mary University of London

Antonio Russo

University of Sheffield

Ángel Cuevas

Charles III University of Madrid

Ruben Cuevas

Charles III University of Madrid

Abstract

We study the effect of corporate taxes on multinational digital platforms and the online global advertising market. Using a novel dataset of advertising prices and user product preferences from Facebook, that we combine with international trade data, we show that an increase in the platform’s corporate tax rate in several countries had a sizeable effect on advertising prices therein. Given the platform’s two-sided and multinational structure, we also document substantial spillovers in the effects of ad prices across countries. The results are consistent with our theoretical model, which shows that, due to consumers’ limited tolerance for ads, the platform reduces the supply of ads to advertisers located in countries where it faces a higher tax rate.

Keywords: Online advertising, Two-sided Platforms, corporate taxes, Pass-through, international trade

Suggested Citation:

Lassmann, Andrea and Liberini, Federica and Russo, Antonio and Cuevas, Ángel and Cuevas, Ruben, Global Spillovers of Taxation in the Online Advertising Market. Theory and Evidence from Facebook. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4739236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4739236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Acquisti , C Taylor , L Wagman
The economics of privacy
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 442 - 492 Posted: 2016
D R Agrawal , W H Hoyt
Pass-through in a multiproduct world Posted: 2019
G Alaveras , B Martens
Inter-national trade in online services Posted: 2015
A Ambrus , E Calvano , M Reisinger
Either or both competition: A 'twosided' theory of advertising with overlapping viewerships
American Economic Journal: Microeconomics , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 222 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
457
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies