Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Non-U.S. Tax Authority Monitoring on U.S. Multinationals’ Affiliates Income Shifting: Evidence from EDGAR Search Activity

61 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Sabrina Chi

CSU Fullerton

Anh Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business - Department of Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the determinants and consequences of the monitoring activity of foreign tax authorities (FTAs) for U.S. multinational enterprises (MNEs). Using a novel dataset of downloads of U.S. MNEs’ 10-K filings by FTAs, we find that countries’ corporate tax rate and MNEs’ local affiliate size are positively associated with local FTA monitoring, consistent with FTAs in high tax countries being concerned with tax base erosion to low tax countries. Importantly, we find that the affiliates collectively engage in less income shifting from high tax countries to low tax countries when aggregate FTA monitoring across the group is higher. Consistent with the coordination and enforcement channels, the deterrence effect of aggregate FTA monitoring concentrates among the subsample where the monitoring FTAs experience greater improvements in information exchange under tax treaties and when the strength of monitoring FTAs is stronger. Additional analyses documenting positive associations between aggregate FTA monitoring and subsequent foreign and cash-effective tax rates of U.S. MNEs further corroborate the deterrence effect of aggregate FTA monitoring.

Keywords: tax authority monitoring, income shifting, tax avoidance, tax coordination

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, H32, K22, L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Sabrina and Persson, Anh and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Urcan, Oktay, The Effect of Non-U.S. Tax Authority Monitoring on U.S. Multinationals’ Affiliates Income Shifting: Evidence from EDGAR Search Activity (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4739378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4739378
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
H Akamah , O K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
829
RANK
425,064
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies