Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Contribution Arrangements in a Changing International Tax Environment

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 57. IBFD, 2021.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Dennis Nijssen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2021

Abstract

This book looks at why CCAs are accepted as a legitimate transfer pricing instrument and analyses the most relevant rules governing their tax and transfer pricing treatment.

Technological advancement and globalization have dramatically impacted the business models of multinational enterprises (MNEs). They have opened new markets, enhanced international collaboration and increased the relevance of intangibles in value chains. All of this has undeniably contributed to more economic growth and global prosperity. It has, however, also substantially complicated the world of international tax law, posing complex challenges in day-to-day fiscal practice and causing public concern about aggressive tax planning and potential tax avoidance by MNEs.

Difficulties become especially apparent where companies belonging to the same multinational group collectively develop their most valuable (intangible) business assets or centralize the performance of critical group services. MNEs often structure such intragroup collaboration in legal agreements that foresee a joint ownership of results and that allocate the cost of the shared activities in proportion to each participant’s anticipated benefits. These agreements are commonly referred to as cost contribution arrangements (CCAs) or cost sharing arrangements (CSAs). They are a pragmatic tool to allocate a significant part of the MNE’s costs and income among the participating group companies. At the same time, and for the same reason, they are also frequently found to play a critical role in tax planning structures.

This study sets out to investigate why CCAs are accepted as a legitimate transfer pricing instrument, and it analyses the most relevant rules and regulations governing their tax and transfer pricing treatment. It further outlines how effective those rules are at facilitating bona fide CCAs as well as countering the use of CCAs for tax avoidance purposes.

Full book

Keywords: cost contribution arrangement, cost sharing arrangement, MNE, intangibles, transfer pricing, tax avoidance, international taxation, tax treaty, CFC, dispute resolution

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Nijssen, Dennis, Cost Contribution Arrangements in a Changing International Tax Environment (January 1, 2021). IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 57. IBFD, 2021., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741700
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies