Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Intangibles: Us and OECD Arm's Length Distribution of Operating Profits from Ip Value Chains

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 45. IBFD, 2019.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Oddleif Torvik

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

This book explores how taxing rights to multinationals’ business profits from valuable IP shall be allocated among jurisdictions under US and OECD transfer pricing law.

The transfer pricing of intangibles (patents, trademarks, etc.) is an important issue in international tax law, because it determines how superprofits generated by multinationals through the exploitation of valuable intellectual property (IP) in their worldwide value chains are allocated among the jurisdictions in which they do business. For decades, multinationals have used IP transfer pricing to shift taxable profits out of high-tax jurisdictions, causing serious base erosion. Both the United States and the OECD seek to combat these practices through mandatory transfer pricing rules aimed at ensuring that IP superprofits are taxed where the intangible value was created. The profit allocation process prescribed by these rules is analysed in this text.

The first part of the process determines the amount of superprofits allocable to a unique and valuable IP (royalty amount). The US and OECD transfer pricing methods that govern this determination are analysed, applying a distinction between unique and non-unique value chain contributions, and it is observed that the methodology has evolved significantly over the years, from primarily relying on imprecise third-party benchmarking to more substance-based approaches that seek to ensure results that adhere to the realistic alternatives of the controlled parties.

The second part of the profit allocation process determines to which group entity, and thus indirectly also to which jurisdiction, the amount of IP superprofits will be allocated. The US and OECD intangible ownership provisions that govern this determination are analysed, applying an original analytical distinction between manufacturing and marketing IP. The analysis shows that, while both the US and OECD rules go a long way towards aligning the allocation of superprofits from R&D-based manufacturing IP with value creation, the allocation of superprofits from marketing IP still largely hinges on formal legal ownership and thus opens the opportunity for tax planning from multinationals and should be ripe for future reform.

This book is suited for those that have an interest in transfer pricing analysis, e.g. students, lawyers, accountants and economists. The historical background of the current transfer pricing rules is explained, allowing for an “all-in-one” solution for catching up with the US and OECD transfer pricing development over the last decades.

Full book

Keywords: transfer pricing, intangibles, intellectual property, value chain analysis, MNE, allocation of profits, R&D, tax planning

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Torvik, Oddleif, Transfer Pricing and Intangibles: Us and OECD Arm's Length Distribution of Operating Profits from Ip Value Chains (January 1, 2019). IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 45. IBFD, 2019., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741651
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies