Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Decentralization, Preferences for Redistribution, and Regional Identities

53 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024 Last revised: 24 Oct 2024

Dirk Foremny

University of Barcelona (Department of Economics); Institut d'Economia de Barcelona; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper provides novel evidence on the impact of tax decentralization on citizens' preferences for redistribution. The study leverages results from a large-scale survey experiment implemented in Spain. The experimental design is based on an information treatment which explains the normative power of regional governments in personal income taxation, a feature mostly unknown at baseline. First-stage results show that the treatment increases the salience of this characteristic by 40 percentage points. The treatment increases respondents' aversion against inequality but decreases their support for higher taxes on the rich. Both results are explained by the identities of respondents. The effect on inequality is driven by individuals with a stronger regional than national identity, while the rejection of higher taxes on the rich is driven by participants which identify more with the nation than the region. Heterogeneous effects on trust in central or regional governments confirm this pattern. These results shed light on the role of identity in shaping preferences for redistribution and provide novel evidence that redistributive policies work as a local public good when local attachment of citizens is large.

Keywords: Preferences for redistribution, taxation, survey experiment, fiscal federalism, decentralization JEL Codes: H22, H26, D83, D31, C9

JEL Classification: H22, H26, D83, D31, C9

Suggested Citation:

Foremny, Dirk, Tax Decentralization, Preferences for Redistribution, and Regional Identities (February 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4741088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
David R Agrawal , Dirk Foremny
Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 214 - 232 Posted: 2019
Jesper Akesson , Robert W Hahn , Robert D Metcalfe , Itzhak Rasooly
Race and Redistribution in the United States: An Experimental Analysis
Working Paper , volume 30426 Posted: 2022
Alberto Alesina , Matteo F Ferroni , Stefanie Stantcheva
Perceptions of Racial Gaps, their Causes, and Ways to Reduce Them Posted: 2021
Alberto Alesina , Paola Giuliano , Matthew Jackson , Jess Benhabib , Alberto Bisin
Preferences for Redistribution
Handbook of Social Economics , volume 1 , p. 92 - 131 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
682
RANK
397,014
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies