Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
17 Ways to Regulate Big Tech with Tax

The Tax Lawyer, Volume 78, No. 1 Pp. 1-69

69 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2024 Last revised: 27 Jan 2025

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Tarcísio Diniz Magalhães

University of Antwerp Faculty of Law

Date Written: February 28, 2024

Abstract

Big Tech’s outsize power and influence have prompted policymakers and experts in the United States and around the world to turn to taxation, both for the sake of raising revenue and as a regulatory tool. There are currently at least 17 distinct tax reform ideas circulating across the international community, some unilateral and others multilateral, all of which seek to rein in Big Tech in some way. This Article examines these 17 tax reform ideas, analyzes their pros and cons from a regulatory and distributive perspective, and compares their respective rationales and relative viability. In doing so, this Article illustrates how theory has evolved regarding the traditionally conceived boundaries of the regulatory state, with the Supreme Court’s decision in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. paving the way by overturning decades of archaic precedent and conventional wisdom at the U.S. state level. Applying the Supreme Court’s logic to the cross-border context, this Article concludes that the United States cannot reasonably refuse to cooperate with other nation states when they use the same logic to change the way they tax and regulate Big Tech.

Keywords: Taxation; regulation; antitrust; public utilities; data economy; online platforms; tech firms; physical presence; Wayfair; income tax; corporate tax; minimum tax; OECD; Pillar 1; Pillar 2; digital services taxes; withholding taxes; robot tax; cooperative surplus; tax sovereignty

JEL Classification: H20, F23, F42, K33, K34, O3, O38

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison and Diniz Magalhães, Tarcísio, 17 Ways to Regulate Big Tech with Tax (February 28, 2024). The Tax Lawyer, Volume 78, No. 1 Pp. 1-69, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
Georg Kofler , Julia Sinnig
Equalization Levy and the EU's 'Digital Services Tax
INTERTAX , volume 47 Posted: 2019
OECD Action , volume 1 , p. 107 - 113
(describing India's equalization levy and significant economic presence test, Italy's levy on digital transactions, Israel's significant economic presence test, Hungary's advertising tax, France's tax on online and physical distribution of audio visual content, the UK's diverted profits tax, Australia's multinational anti-avoidance law and diverted profits tax , p. 137 - 163
Suranjali Tandon
Tax Challenges Arising from Digitalization, 24 ASIA-PAC
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,092
RANK
98,916
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies