Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moore Implications from Forgetting the Foreign Commerce Clause

182 Tax Notes Federal 1031

9 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2024

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: February 5, 2024

Abstract

On December 5, 2023, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in Moore about whether the mandatory repatriation tax (MRT) is constitutional. The taxpayers claimed that the 16th Amendment requires income to be realized before it can be taxed, and that the MRT is a tax on unrealized income.

The MRT is imposed indirectly on certain foreign earnings and is similar to the subpart F regime, which has taxed some other types of foreign earnings for over 60 years. The constitutionality of the subpart F regime was originally justified in 1961 partly by Congress’s power to regulate foreign commerce, which can also be used to justify the constitutionality of the MRT. Taxes justified by the commerce clause are not subject to the same constitutional limitations (such as uniformity or apportionment) that can apply to taxes justified by other constitutional clauses.

The commerce clause was not mentioned by the federal government in its Moore briefs or oral arguments, nor by the nearly 30 tax law professors who filed Supreme Court amicus briefs in favor of the government. They may have missed an opportunity to encourage the Supreme Court to uphold the constitutionality of the MRT on commerce clause grounds — a limited holding that would have avoided the thorny realization questions under the 16th Amendment and would have no implications for more domestic taxes such as a mark-to-market income tax or an annual wealth tax.

Keywords: Moore, 965, mandatory repatriation tax, MRT, 16th Amendment, realization, subpart F, commerce clause, foreign commerce clause, forgetting things

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Moore Implications from Forgetting the Foreign Commerce Clause (February 5, 2024). 182 Tax Notes Federal 1031, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4743723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Richard J Horwich
The Constitutionality of Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code
19 Miami L. Rev , volume 400 Posted: 1965
The Knight-Dillon memorandum was cited in the Moore petitioners' reply brief, at 20, and mentioned in Mindy Herzfeld
Posted: 2023
M Owen , Fiss
Troubled Beginnings of the Modern State, 1888-1910
, volume 8 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
401
RANK
524,740
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies