Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Federal Budget Trump Constitutional Rights?

Laura Snyder, "Does the Federal Budget Trump Constitutional Rights?," 52 Hofstra L. Rev. 389 (2024).

56 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

Laura Snyder

Association of Americans Resident Overseas (AARO); Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

Even though most American nationals living outside the United States do not owe U.S. federal income tax, the U.S. nationality-based income tax system nevertheless places considerable burdens on them. In doing so, the system violates Fourteenth Amendment equal protection as well as other constitutional and human rights.

The purpose of the system is not to raise revenue. Instead, its purpose is to punish and scapegoat American nationals living outside the United States, for no reason other than the fact that they live outside the United States. This is evidenced by the statements and actions of policymakers as well as by Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) data and the approach the IRS takes with respect to international taxpayers. The amounts collected by the system are insignificant, as compared both to income tax revenue from all individuals and to government spending.

Congress has abdicated to two unelected bodies—the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation—considerable power to determine the outcome of policy initiatives. If these bodies do not assign a positive budget score, the initiative is likely to die.

This has devastating consequences for reform of the U.S. nationality-based tax system. Reform is desperately needed. But, as long as a positive budget score is required, true reform—reform that will end the system’s violations of constitutional and other fundamental rights for all Americans—is impossible.

Should the federal budget trump constitutional and human rights? Should constitutional and human rights be protected only if and to the extent the initiative receives a positive budget score? When constitutional and human rights are at stake—such as equal protection before the law—should a budget score matter at all?

Surely the response to each of these questions must be no.

Keywords: Citizenship-based Taxation, Congressional Budget Office, Joint Committee on Taxation, Revenue Neutrality, Paygo, Budget Score, Individual Self-Determination, Equal Protection, Constitutional Rights, Human Rights

JEL Classification: D63, E52, E62, H24, K19, K34, K37

Suggested Citation:

Snyder, Laura, Does the Federal Budget Trump Constitutional Rights? (March 28, 2024). Laura Snyder, "Does the Federal Budget Trump Constitutional Rights?," 52 Hofstra L. Rev. 389 (2024)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
174 References
Sweeny
Id
, volume 22
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, COMM. ON OVERSIGHT & ACCOUNTABILITY DEMOCRATS , volume 21 Posted: 2024
M Cheyanne , Daniels
Republican House Oversight Committee Disbands Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties
HILL , volume 1 Posted: 2023-01-31
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
703
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
84,217
174 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies