Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don't Blame the Victims: Individuals and the MRT

182 Tax Notes Fed. 1617 (Feb. 26, 2024).

11 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Karen Alpert

University of Queensland - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

John Richardson

Citizenship Solutions; Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Laura Snyder

Association of Americans Resident Overseas (AARO); Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Date Written: February 26, 2024

Abstract

Moore v. United States has garnered a lot of attention. This includes commentary asserting both that (i) few individuals were subject to the Mandatory Repatriation Tax (MRT), and (ii) the few that were at fault for any damages they suffered - there were steps they could and should have taken to avoid being subject to the MRT.

The MRT had devastating effects for Americans living and operating small businesses outside the United States. This paper: (i) demonstrates that the MRT affected more individuals than multinational corporations, and (ii) explains why there was little that Americans living and operating small businesses outside the United States could have done to avoid the damages inflicted on them by the MRT.

Ultimately, it is time to stop using U.S. tax policies to punish American nationals for living outside the United States, and it is time to stop blaming them for the punishment - such as the MRT - inflicted on them.

Keywords: Mandatory Repatriation Tax, Transition Tax, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Controlled Foreign Corporations, S Corporations, Constitutional Rights, Human Rights, Equal Protection, Citizenship-based Taxation

JEL Classification: D63, F22, F23, G34, G38, H24, H25, K19, K34, K37

Suggested Citation:

Alpert, Karen and Richardson, John and Snyder, Laura, Don't Blame the Victims: Individuals and the MRT (February 26, 2024). 182 Tax Notes Fed. 1617 (Feb. 26, 2024)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4749890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E G See , Michele Chabin
47 Regarding the United Kingdom, e.g., see Lyn Morey and Hannah Reason
Starting in Business: The Pros and Cons of Incorporation Posted: 2016-07-12
E G See , Snyder
The Unacknowledged Realities of Extraterritorial Taxation
47 S. Ill. U. L.J , volume 243 , p. 263 - 265 Posted: 2023
at art. P.44 (delineating the only types of corporate and other structures -structures d'exercice -that are acceptable for the operation of a law firm in France; no U.S. structure appears on the list)
For accounting firms, see Posted: 2023-12-08
E G See
16-1, requiring that any shareholder of a law firm be a member of a bar, whether inside or outside France. There is no mechanism for a U.S. S corporation to be a member of a bar in either the United States or France. See also Conseil National de l'Ordre des Experts-Comptables, supra note 49 at 1-2, explaining that the shares of a French accounting firm may be held only by regulated accountants and regulated accounting firms
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,026
RANK
45,601
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies