Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gaming the Endowment Tax

28 Florida Tax Review 128-175 (2024)

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No.520

48 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2024 Last revised: 20 Apr 2024

CJ Ryan

Indiana University Maurer School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Christopher Marsicano

Davidson College; The College Crisis Initiative (C2i) at Davidson College

Ann Bernhardt

Texas A&M University (TAMU), Students

Rylie Martin

Davidson College - The College Crisis Initiative

Date Written: March 8, 2024

Abstract

The 2017 law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) enacted a tax on private, non-profit college and university endowments for the first time. Institutions with at least 500 tuition-paying students and endowments of $500,000 or greater per student now have to pay a 1.4 percent tax on their endowments. But like all taxpayers, colleges and universities may be tax averse or seek reductions in their tax burdens. That is, colleges and universities may try to avoid the tax through taking action to ensure they do not meet the threshold. Such actions include increasing their student bodies, increasing student aid to ensure a small number of tuition-paying students, and spending down their endowments. Colleges may also attempt to offset taxed revenue by increasing other revenue streams. Examples of such behavior include increasing revenue from auxiliary services, admitting more “full-pay” students who do not need financial aid, reducing financial aid for tuition-paying students (perhaps even while increasing the number of students who receive enough aid to become non-tuition paying), and admitting fewer low-income students. All of this would be economically rational behavior, but it could produce negative effects for higher-education stakeholder groups, such as students and their families.

In this article, we assess the ramifications of the TCJA’s endowment tax for college and university revenue-seeking behavior. We use a national-level dataset and a quasi-experimental statistical model known as the “Synthetic Control Method,” which is underutilized in legal research, to examine institutional behaviors in the wake of the TCJA’s passage. We find that individual institutions—such as Northwestern University, Duke University, and Vassar College, among others—may have changed their admissions, enrollment, and revenue-generating behaviors to reduce their overall tax burden, offset losses in revenue, or avoid the tax. We suspect that this is evidence of firm behavior to game the endowment tax imposed by the TCJA.

Keywords: Tax, TCJA, endowment tax, synthetic control, firm behavior

JEL Classification: D21, D22, D23, H21, H26, H41, I22, I23, I24, I28, K34, L21, L38

Suggested Citation:

Ryan, Christopher and Marsicano, Christopher and Bernhardt, Ann and Martin, Rylie, Gaming the Endowment Tax (March 8, 2024). 28 Florida Tax Review 128-175 (2024), Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No.520, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4752795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
This report provides important context on college and university endowments and discusses various options for changing their tax treatment
R44293, coLLege and UnIveRsIty endoWMents: oveRvIeW and tax poLIcy Posted: 2018
endowment assets are concentrated, with 12% of institutions holding 75% of all endowment Posted: 2017
See 45 Id , G William , Aaron Gale , Krupkin
endowment assets earn a rate of return of 12.2% on average
Did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Pay for Itself in 2018?, bRooKIngs Posted: 2019-03-15
But see Kisska-Schulze & Holden, supra note 2, at 495 (citing same and saying
Estimated Budget Effects of the Conference Agreement for H.R. 1, the "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act" FYs 2018-2027 , volume 8 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
267,661
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies