Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
America's Failure to Rescue Parents: A Narrative of Inequitable Tax "Reform"

UC Law Journal (forthcoming)

78 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Shannon Weeks McCormack

University of Washington School of Law

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

Other developed nations provide a slew of direct benefits to parents, such as paid parental
leave and affordable childcare. America instead takes a circuitous route, heavily relying on
the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) to provide tax breaks to certain parents. In addition
to being indirect and comparatively stingy, these “parental tax benefits” are not awarded
equitably. Instead, they favor nonpoor one breadwinner families, ignore the plight of
nonpoor working parents incurring substantial childcare and other work-related costs,
exhibit an outright hostility towards poor parents and raise a host of other distributional
concerns. This preferentialism is sticky––when Congress alters parental tax benefits, it
rarely deviates from these patterns.

That is, until the COVID pandemic. Signed into law on March 11, 2021, the American Rescue
Plan Act (the ARPA) provided much needed relief to parents attempting to maintain jobs and
care for children during this global health crisis. As is America’s tendency, the ARPA leaned
extensively on the Code to do so. But it abandoned its consistent preferentialism for nonpoor
one breadwinner parents, expanding the various tax benefits available to nonpoor working
parents and poor parents in historically significant ways.

This was short-lived. These benefits have now expired, leaving parents back where they
started. And while it initially appeared that the ill-fated “Build Back Better Act” would
resurrect many of the ARPA’s expanded parental tax benefits, Congress ultimately let them
all lapse. Because the ARPA was born in an emergency (and expired well before it ended),
it will be easy to dismiss it as crisis legislation. I resist this narrative and create a counter
one. By situating the ARPA within a broader historical context, an accurate narrative is
developed––one where the ARPA’s expansion of parental tax benefits was neither hasty nor
creative but instead enacted long overdue adjustments that began to correct the
distributionally problematic way in which America has historically favored some families
over others.

Preserving this historic narrative is imperative. It underscores the alarming failure of
Congress to extend any of the ARPA’s parental tax benefits. It provides context for
temporary expansions passed by the House, which, despite making grand headlines,
constitute a remarkably modest step towards treating poor parents similarly to nonpoor
parents. And of critical import, the narrative of inequitable tax reform developed in this
project, supported by history rather than politics and bias, should ground imminent
conversations that will shape the future of how parents in America are taxed. The Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, which amplified Congress’ inequitable treatment of families and favoritism
towards nonpoor one breadwinner families, expires in 2025, providing a date certain on
which Congress must revisit its method of taxing parents. During these imminent and other
future conversations, a mastery of the historical context preserved in this Article should arm
those who advocate for a more inclusive method of supporting parents attempting to raise
children in the United States.

Keywords: American Rescue Plan Act (the ARPA), Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), parental tax benefits, Child Tax Credit

Suggested Citation:

McCormack, Shannon Weeks, America's Failure to Rescue Parents: A Narrative of Inequitable Tax "Reform" ( 2024). UC Law Journal (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4755561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
RANK
478,514
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies