Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business model digitalization, competition, and tax savings

NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2024/6

55 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Elisa Casi

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Barbara Stage

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Maximilian Todtenhaupt

Leibniz University Hannover; Norwegian School of Economics (NHH)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 13, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of business model digitalization on competition and how corporate tax savings through digitalization may augment this relationship. Global policymakers express concern that digitalization-related tax savings unfairly benefit the competitive standing of rival firms over their competitors. Using textual analysis techniques to identify firms’ business models, we show that rivals’ adoption of a digital business model leads to negative economic effects on the performance of their non-digitalizing competitors. We estimate that a one standard deviation increase in the share of digitalized rivals in a market reduces a competitor’s market share by 4.6%. Suggesting significant tax savings from digitalizing, we also find that digitalizing rivals substantially reduce their effective tax rates, mostly by increased use of tax havens. However, when we test whether the detected competitive externalities vary depending on the share of digitalizing rivals with versus without substantial digitalization-related tax savings, we find the economic magnitudes of their effects are quantitatively similar. Therefore, contrary to policymakers’ concerns of digitalization-related tax savings unfairly shaping competition, our findings suggest that tax savings from digitalization is not a key driver of altering competition between digitalized and non-digitalized firms.

Keywords: Digital, Tax, Product Market, Competition, Business Model

JEL Classification: O33, D40, L22, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Casi-Eberhard, Elisa and Lisowsky, Petro and Stage, Barbara and Todtenhaupt, Maximilian, Business model digitalization, competition, and tax savings (March 13, 2024). NHH Dept. of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2024/6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4757841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4757841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
N Bloom , R Sadun , J Van Reenen
Americans Do IT Better: US Multinationals and the Productivity Miracle
The American Economic Review , volume 102 , p. 167 - 201 Posted: 2012
P Bolton , D S Scharfstein
A Theory of Predation Based on Agency Problems in Financial Contracting
American Economic Review , p. 93 - 106 Posted: 1990
E Brynjolfsson , D Rock , C Syverson , A Agrawal , J Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial Intelligence and the Modern Productivity Paradox: A Clash of Expectations and Statistics , p. 23 - 57 Posted: 2019
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are Family Firms More Tax Aggressive than Non-Family Firms?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
RANK
209,542
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies