Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and the Investment of Mutual Funds - Evidence from the German Investment Tax Reform

52 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Reinald Koch

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Lena Schoen

Research School of International Taxation (RSIT)

Date Written: March 13, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of dividend taxes on equity mutual fund investments, using the 2018 German Investment Tax Reform as a unique case study. This reform eliminated the foreign tax credit for German fund investors, thereby introducing a new tax planning channel for German equity mutual funds. Analyzing data from 297 German equity mutual funds and comparable non-German equity and bond mutual funds, our findings indicate a significant shift in portfolio allocation post-reform. German equity mutual funds strategically shifted assets to countries with lower withholding tax rates and adjusted investments within countries to avoid taxes after the reform. We also examine the economic impact of the tax reform and find a negative relationship between the tax burden and fund inflows after the re-form. Our findings provide valuable perspectives for policymakers, industry practitioners, and researchers by shedding light on the complex interplay between taxes, fund decisions, and investor responses.

Keywords: Dividend Taxes, Mutual Funds, Investment Decisions, Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: H26, G23

Suggested Citation:

Koch, Reinald and Schoen, Lena, Taxes and the Investment of Mutual Funds - Evidence from the German Investment Tax Reform (March 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4758493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4758493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Almazan , K C Brown , M Carlson , D A Chapman
Why Constrain your Mutual Fund Manager
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 73 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 321 Posted: 2004
D Amiram , M M Frank
Foreign Portfolio Investment and Shareholder Dividend Taxes
Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 717 - 740 Posted: 2016
J Ammer , S B Holland , D C Smith , F E Warnbock
U.S. International Equity Investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2012
R Arnott , V Kalesnik , T Schuesler
Is Your Alpha Big Enough To Cover Its Taxes? A Quarter-Century Retrospective
Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 78 - 102 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
672,864
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies