Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Tax Rate Hikes in Tax Havens on High-Tax Countries

23 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Masaaki Suzuki

Senshu University - School of Economics

Date Written: August 07, 2024

Abstract

This paper aims to theoretically explore the effect of tax rate hikes in tax havens on the profit shifting of firms and tax competition among governments in high-tax countries. It uses an analytically tractable model to examine the effects of tax rate hikes in tax havens on high-tax countries in which firms shift a portion of profits to tax havens. The results reveal that tax rate hikes in tax havens decrease the profit shifting of high-tax countries. Moreover, when tax havens raise the tax rates, the marginal effective tax rates in high-tax countries decrease, which aggravates tax competition among high-tax countries. These results cast doubt on the optimistic view that efforts to urge tax havens to raise their tax rates, such as the introduction of a global minimum tax, will end both profit shifting and tax competition.

Keywords: Corporate tax, Profit shifting, Tax competition, Minimum tax JEL Classifications: H25, H26

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Suzuki, Masaaki, The Effects of Tax Rate Hikes in Tax Havens on High-Tax Countries (August 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4758501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4758501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Katarzyna A Bilicka
Comparing UK Tax Returns of Foreign Multinationals to Matched Domestic Firms
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 8 , p. 2921 - 2953 Posted: 2019
De Mooij , Ruud , Sjef Ederveen
Taxation and Foreign Direct Investment: A Synthesis of Empirical Research
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 10 , p. 673 - 693 Posted: 2003
De Mooij , Ruud , Sjef Ederveen
Corporate Tax Elasticities: A Reader's Guide to Empirical Findings
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 680 - 697 Posted: 2008
Michael P Devereux
International Tax Competition and Coordination with a Global Minimum Tax
National Tax Journal , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 166 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
493,078
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies