Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Taxation with Incomplete Markets–An Exploration Via Reinforcement Learning

44 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Zhigang Feng

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Jiequn Han

Flatiron Institute

Shenghao Zhu

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE)

Abstract

In this paper, we delve into the optimal taxation, government debt/asset management, and price volatility in economies with incomplete markets. Employing a quasi-linear pref- erence framework, we find that any finite level of government asset is sustainable, and the derivative of the value function behaves as a martingale, exhibiting no convergence. However, when taxes or assets are bounded, the asset accumulation process assumes an ergodic nature, even as government expenditure adheres to a Markov process. Moreover, we demonstrate that the well-known Martingale convergence result in existing literature is attributed to a weak precautionary savings motive by the government. Conversely, with a sufficiently strong precautionary savings motive, the asset accumulation process regains its ergodic characteris- tics. Additionally, we introduce a computational method based on machine learning to solve the equilibrium set of endogenous state variables, policy, and value functions. Our numerical simulations reveal that optimal taxation and government debt/asset management are closely intertwined, exerting substantial influence on asset pricing.

Keywords: Ramsey Taxation, Asset Pricing, Debt Management, Deep Neural Network, Reinforcement Learning.

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Zhigang and Han, Jiequn and Zhu, Shenghao, Optimal Taxation with Incomplete Markets–An Exploration Via Reinforcement Learning. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4758552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4758552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
D Abreu , D Pearce , E Stacchetti
Toward a Theory of Discounted Repeated Games with Imperfect Monitoring
Econometrica , volume 58 , p. 1041 - 1063 Posted: 1990
S R Aiyagari , A Marcet , T J Sargent , J Seppala
Optimal Taxation without State-Contingent Debt
Journal of Political Economy , volume 110 , p. 1220 - 1254 Posted: 2002
R J Barro
On the Determination of the Public Debt
Journal of Political Economy , volume 87 , p. 940 - 971 Posted: 1979
A Barron
Universal approximation bounds for superpositions of a sigmoidal function
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory , volume 39 , p. 930 - 945 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
496
RANK
605,632
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies