Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Taxation and the Regulation of Supreme Court Justices' Conduct

Cornell Law Review, Vol. 110, No. 5, forthcoming

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2024-07

52 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2024 Last revised: 20 Mar 2024

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: March 18, 2024

Abstract

Last year, investigative journalists reported multiple instances where billionaires showered Supreme Court Justices with lavish gifts. Previously undisclosed luxury fishing trips, private jet travels, and yacht cruises, ignited popular and scholarly debates about Congress’s role in regulating Justices’ conduct. This article explains how income taxation can, and should, be used to regulate judicial misconduct where rules of judicial conduct fail.
The article shows that in some instances income tax already serves as a backstop to rules of judicial conduct. Under current law, some of the “gifts” reported in recent press stories are likely taxable income to the Justices. If so, the Justices should have reported these amounts on their income tax returns and paid income tax on them. If the Justices indeed do so, many of the concerns raised in public and scholarly discourse on Justices’ conduct are mitigated. If the Justices did not report and pay tax on certain gifts, they should be audited, and be subject to the same consequences as any other taxpayer who fails to properly report income and pay taxes.
The article also explains that in some instances income taxation is a better regulatory instrument than rules of judicial conduct. Some commentators (and a few of the Justices) argue that congressionally imposed limits on Justices’ gift receipts are unconstitutional. There is no such problem in the context of income taxation. Congress is clearly within its constitutional authority to require, and in certain cases current law already demands Justices to report certain receipts on their income tax returns. Congress can also expand income taxation laws to capture even more transfers to Justices.
Moreover, even if laws directly regulating judicial conduct are valid, the consequences for Justices for failure to adhere to these rules are minimal. Not so in the context of income taxation. Failure to report income may carry significant civil, and even criminal consequences. As such, income tax offers a very potent threat against Justices for failing to disclose certain receipts.
The article also considers several tax law reforms – all within Congress’s constitutional power – to further improve income taxation to regulate Justices’ conduct. Specifically, the article offers to deny income tax exemption for any gifts received by Justices, to consider annual public disclosure of Justices’ tax returns, and to mandate annual audits of Justices’ tax returns.

Keywords: Supreme Court, Judicial Conduct, Income Taxation, Gifts

JEL Classification: K34, K29, K40

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Income Taxation and the Regulation of Supreme Court Justices' Conduct (March 18, 2024). Cornell Law Review, Vol. 110, No. 5, forthcoming, UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2024-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4763766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Pt. D: Ethics Statutes, Regulations, and Judicial Conference Resolutions, 620 , volume 2 Posted: 2023
Id
Kim
Pt. D: Ethics Statutes, Regulations, and Judicial Conference Resolutions, supra note 113 , volume 2
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
314,322
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies