Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inheritance Tax and Wealth Inequality: Evidence from Austria

11 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Da-Kai Wu

Feng Chia University

Abstract

We investigate the impact of the 2008 abolition of inheritance tax on wealth inequality in Austria. Using the synthetic control method, we find a significant rise in the wealth share of the top 1 percent following the elimination of the inheritance tax. These results suggest that inheritance tax plays a crucial role in mitigating wealth inequality, highlighting its potential equalizing effect.

Keywords: Inheritance tax, Wealth inequality, Synthetic control method.

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Da-Kai, Inheritance Tax and Wealth Inequality: Evidence from Austria. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4764478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4764478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A Abadie , J Gardeazabal
The Economic Costs of Conflict: A Case Study of the Basque Country
American Economic Review , volume 93 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 2003
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Synthetic Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , issue 490 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
A Abadie , A Diamond , J Hainmueller
Comparative Politics and the Synthetic Control Method
American Journal of Political Science , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2015
T Bönke , M Werder , C Westermeier
How Inheritances Shape Wealth Distributions: An International Comparison
Economics Letters , volume 159 , p. 217 - 220 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
451,566
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies