Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements: OECD Recommendations and German Practice

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 10 ; p. 520-528; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/32831pp

Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Sven-Eric Bärsch

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: September 26, 2013

Abstract

Against the background of the various recent OECD reports on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), the authors investigate the tax classifications of financial instruments and entities in selected EU Member States and OECD member countries, and examine German tax rules that deal with the consequences of different tax classifications.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: BEPS Project (OECD), hybrid mismatch, income classification, entity classification

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Bärsch, Sven-Eric and Spengel, Christoph, Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements: OECD Recommendations and German Practice (September 26, 2013). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 10 ; p. 520-528; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/32831pp, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies