Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-related Key Audit Matters and Changes in Corporate Income Shifting

46 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Cinthia Valle Ruiz

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Date Written: March 19, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the association between tax-related key audit matters (KAM) disclosures and corporate income shifting. We test our research question using KAM disclosures in the expanded audit reports from a large sample of European firms from 2012 to 2021. We find that group-level KAM disclosures are associated with a decline in corporate income shifting in current and subsequent periods when the KAMs relate to Uncertain Tax Positions (UTPs). In additional tests, we show that receiving UTP KAMs shapes affiliate-level tax planning responses, especially for financially unconstrained groups. Our results support the idea that corporations respond to the saliency provided by the expanded audit report dialogues by altering their income shifting behavior. More broadly speaking, we provide novel evidence on the real economic consequences of and usefulness of expanded audit report components.

Keywords: Multinational corporations, income shifting, Key Audit Matters (KAMs), tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H40

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Goldman, Nathan C. and Pierk, Jochen and Valle Ruiz, Cinthia, Tax-related Key Audit Matters and Changes in Corporate Income Shifting (March 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4765271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
393,016
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies