Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Disputes, Abusive Tax Schemes and the Protection of the European Convention on Human Rights Against Oppressive Tax Actions: The Yukos Case

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 6 ; p. 283-294; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1s0g0d0

Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Jose Manuel Calderón Carrero

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Alberto Quintas Seara

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

Following the global financial crisis, taxpayers are subject to more effective levels of taxation and fiscal oversight and tax procedures. The protection of the European Convention on Human Rights against oppressive fiscal actions, arbitrary and pseudo-confiscatory taxation should, however, not be underestimated, as is clearly demonstrated by the Yukos case.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: ECHR case law, European Convention on Human Rights, transfer pricing, tax avoidance

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Calderón Carrero, Jose Manuel and Seara, Alberto Quintas, Transfer Pricing Disputes, Abusive Tax Schemes and the Protection of the European Convention on Human Rights Against Oppressive Tax Actions: The Yukos Case (April 24, 2013). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 6 ; p. 283-294; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1s0g0d0, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765966
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
40
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies