Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of Article 10(5) of the OECD Model as Implemented in Tax Treaties and Relevant Case Law

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 4/5 ; 24 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3bmkwcr

Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Davide Alberto De Santis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 3, 2013

Abstract

This article provides a comprehensive analysis of issues arising from the interpretation of article 10(5) of the OECD Model which prohibits the extraterritorial taxation of dividends or profits, and analyses whether or not the range of existing tax treaties that are in force assist in this process.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, tax treaty, dividend, case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

De Santis, Davide Alberto, A Comparative Analysis of Article 10(5) of the OECD Model as Implemented in Tax Treaties and Relevant Case Law (April 3, 2013). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 4/5 ; 24 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3bmkwcr, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765943
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies