Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an Improved Design of the Chinese General Anti-Avoidance Rule: A Comparative Analysis

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 12 (special issue on China) ; p. 686-696; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/249w9er

Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Wei Xiong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: November 10, 2014

Abstract

In this article, the authors examine the operation of the Chinese general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR) and compare it with GAARs in other regimes. Their analysis suggests that in China there are still fundamental problems with the legislative design of the GAAR, with the manner in which it is being administered by the revenue authorities and with the manner in which it is being interpreted by the judiciary. Greater certainty, consistency and clarity is still required.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: GAAR, ability to pay, anti-avoidance, tax treaty

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Xiong, Wei and Evans, Christopher Charles, Towards an Improved Design of the Chinese General Anti-Avoidance Rule: A Comparative Analysis (November 10, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 12 (special issue on China) ; p. 686-696; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/249w9er, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767491
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
67
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies