Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Justice between Machiavelli and Habermas

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 2 ; p. 54-66; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3t58j8t

Posted: 26 Mar 2024

Peter H. J. Essers

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 10, 2014

Abstract

The author discusses the ongoing debate on international tax justice. He concludes that: (1) The concept of international tax justice is mainly determined by supranational organizations, like the G8, G20, OECD, European Union and NGOs. These organizations lack sufficient (direct) democratic legitimacy. Nor do they represent all relevant countries and citizens. (2) National parliaments and citizens are not or are only indirectly involved in this process. (3) The development of a concept of international tax justice is not based on a true dialogue between all stakeholders, intended to create a durable and legitimate system of international tax justice. (4) The hypothesis that the present debate on international tax justice is polluted by power play and deception proves to be true. (5) In order to improve the legitimacy of the concept of international tax justice, we need more "Habermas" and less "Machiavelli". Therefore, a true dialogue with national parliaments and citizens will be necessary. This does not mean that in the future a (moderate) Machiavellian approach will not be acceptable anymore. What should be prevented, though, is that Machiavellian behaviour becomes dominant and will obstruct a true democratic decision making process.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: international taxation, tax fraud, tax avoidance, international tax planning

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Essers, Peter H. J., International Tax Justice between Machiavelli and Habermas (January 10, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 2 ; p. 54-66; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3t58j8t, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767497
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies