Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Control Framework - a Conceptual Approach: The Six Nuances of Good Tax Governance

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 11 ; p. 635-640; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/138t2bs

Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Katarzyna Bronżewska

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eelco van der Enden

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 8, 2014

Abstract

In this article, the authors approach the concept of a Tax Control Framework (TCF) from a strategic perspective, and explain what is the nature of a TCF, how it interacts with good tax governance and relates to the mission and vision of tax administrations and tax risk management.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: audit, tax compliance, tax authorities, risk management, tax good governance, MNE

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Bronżewska, Katarzyna and van der Enden, Eelco, Tax Control Framework - a Conceptual Approach: The Six Nuances of Good Tax Governance (October 8, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 11 ; p. 635-640; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/138t2bs, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767483
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies