Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jurisdiction to Tax in Digital Economy: Permanent and Other Establishments

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 6/7 (special issue); p. 346-351; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xh3jm9

Posted: 25 Mar 2024

Walter Hellerstein

Independent

Date Written: April 16, 2014

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the importance of administrative concerns in designing jurisdictional rules for the digital economy and the goal of aligning the jurisdictional assignment of the tax base with the ability to enforce tax collection in the jurisdiction to which the base is assigned.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: BEPS, digital economy, tax avoidance, collection of tax, enforcement, e-commerce, PE

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hellerstein, Walter, Jurisdiction to Tax in Digital Economy: Permanent and Other Establishments (April 16, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 68 (2014), no. 6/7 (special issue); p. 346-351; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xh3jm9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4767537
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies