Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Property Tax in Slovakia – Scoping Review

Bratislava Law Review, 7(2), pp. 137-162. https://doi.org/10.46282/blr.2023.7.2.393

26 Pages Posted: 1 May 2024

Anna Vartašova

University of Pavol Jozef Šafárik in Kosice

Cecilia Olexová

University of Economics in Bratislava - Faculty of Business Economics

Radka Štefanová

Pavol Jozef Šafárik University

Date Written: December 29, 2023

Abstract

Real property tax is a common type of tax applicable often as a local tax and a source of local revenues, which is also the case in the Slovak Republic. This topic is gaining importance in general due to the decreasing revenues of local budgets and the increasing financial requirements of municipalities to ensure services for the citizens. Even though there is a wide range of available scientific literature on the topic, it has not yet been systematically summarized to identify the thematic spectrums of interest to the scientific community and there are areas not yet covered by the research. This review aims to identify the state of knowledge (scientific literature) on the issue of real property tax in the Slovak Republic and the research gap. For this reason, the authors have included the broadest possible range of available scientific literature on the topic of Slovak real property tax searched through the most relevant international databases (Web of Science and Scopus) and a complex national database comprising the works of Slovak academia (CREPČ), even in its broader context of local taxation and local government. The results were acquired by use of the method of a scoping review. Our findings show an increasing trend in the number of publications and authors on the topic in the course of time and their comparable focus on the legal and economic aspects. We identified a high preference for general assessment and certain topics in particular (e.g. tax revenues, tax rates) together with a lower interest in very specific problems and more interdisciplinary issues, where we see the potential for further research.

Keywords: Real Property Tax; Slovakia; Scoping Review; Local Taxes; Local Government

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Vartašova, Anna and Olexová, Cecilia and Štefanová, Radka, Real Property Tax in Slovakia – Scoping Review (December 29, 2023). Bratislava Law Review, 7(2), pp. 137-162. https://doi.org/10.46282/blr.2023.7.2.393, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4773770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
P Adamišin , M Marcinová
Daň z nehnuteľností ako nástroj znižovania regionálnych disparít , p. 9 - 14 Posted: 2012
H Arksey , L Malley
Scoping studies: towards a methodological framework
International Journal of Social Research Methodology , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 32 Posted: 2005
Dobrý deň, samospráva! 2018 -2022 Posted: 2018
R W Bahl , J F Linn , D L Wetzel
Financing metropolitan Governments in Developing Countries Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
658,539
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies