Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Cross-Border Employment Income and Tax Revenue Sharing in the Öresund Region

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 1 ; p. 29-36; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1h9f342

Posted: 30 Mar 2024

Mattias Dahlberg

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ali Sina Önder

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 11, 2014

Abstract

In this article, the authors examine the current rules of the Nordic tax treaty for the taxation of cross-border employment income in the Öresund Region and their impact on public finances of local governments. They propose amendments to those rules since the asymmetry in commuter flow causes revenue losses in the Swedish County of Scania.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: cross-border worker, employment income, double taxation, tax treaty, local tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dahlberg, Mattias and Önder, Ali Sina, Taxation of Cross-Border Employment Income and Tax Revenue Sharing in the Öresund Region (December 11, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 1 ; p. 29-36; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1h9f342, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
59
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies