Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Taxation on Business Mobility in the European Union: The Case of the Netherlands

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 8 ; p. 442-449; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1y6n869

Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Loes Brilman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 15, 2015

Abstract

This article considers how Dutch exit taxation affects business mobility regarding the emigration and the immigration of a business, the transfer of assets in "permanent establishment situations", alternative means of business migration, and whether the current Dutch tax system contravenes treaty and EU law. It also provides suggestions for improvement.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: exit tax, PE, tax treaty, EU law, fundamental freedoms

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brilman, Loes, The Effect of Taxation on Business Mobility in the European Union: The Case of the Netherlands (July 15, 2015). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 8 ; p. 442-449; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1y6n869, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774633
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
58
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies