Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Anti-Avoidance Provisions Regarding the Promotion of Innovation: Considerations from a Tax Policy Perspective

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 10 ; p. 583-594; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1m1gn9k

Posted: 8 Apr 2024

Elizabeth Gil García

Independent

Date Written: September 14, 2016

Abstract

This article explores the options used to counter tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning, emphasizing the effect on fiscal measures designed to encourage innovation. Specifically, the author considers the different measures that are intended to ensure a fair balance between the protection of tax bases and the promotion of innovation.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax planning, tax avoidance, GAAR, R&D, EU Code of Conduct on Business Taxation, nexus, CFC, patent box, CCCTB

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gil García, Elizabeth, The Effect of Anti-Avoidance Provisions Regarding the Promotion of Innovation: Considerations from a Tax Policy Perspective (September 14, 2016). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 10 ; p. 583-594; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1m1gn9k, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776140
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
55
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies