Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Foreign Multinational Enterprises Conducting Business in and with Saudi Arabia

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 4 ; p. 230-235; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1kebcyg

Posted: 5 Apr 2024

Vladimir A. Gidirim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 14, 2016

Abstract

In this article, the author considers the tax implications of Saudi Arabian domestic law (outbound payments, permanent establishment issues) and the tax treaties that Saudi Arabia has concluded for multinational enterprises doing business in and with Saudi Arabia. The article also provides insights into the practices of local tax authorities.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax system, PE, allocation of profits, technical services, turnkey contract, royalties, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

A. Gidirim, Vladimir, Taxation of Foreign Multinational Enterprises Conducting Business in and with Saudi Arabia (March 14, 2016). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 4 ; p. 230-235; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1kebcyg, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776197
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies