Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exchange of Tax-Related Information and the Protection of Taxpayer Rights: General Comments and the Brazilian Perspective

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 9 ; p. 502-516; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/sk7hwg

Posted: 3 Apr 2024

Sergio André Rocha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 25, 2016

Abstract

This article examines certain specific points relating to the protection of the rights of taxpayers within the context of the exchange of information for tax purposes, with emphasis on the Brazilian experience. In this respect, the author considers both automatic exchange and exchange on request.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: exchange of information, automatic exchange of information, taxpayers' rights

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rocha, Sergio André, Exchange of Tax-Related Information and the Protection of Taxpayer Rights: General Comments and the Brazilian Perspective (August 25, 2016). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 9 ; p. 502-516; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/sk7hwg, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776325
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
36
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies