Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Tax Uncertainty and Supplier Investment

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4777053

58 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 3 Oct 2025

Tzu-Ting Chiu

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Darci Fischer

University of Kentucky; Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Simone Traini

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: May 22, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the link between customer firms’ tax uncertainty and their supplier firms’ investment decisions. We find that customers’ tax uncertainty, proxied by current-year additions to the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, is associated with an increased likelihood of underinvestment and a decreased likelihood of overinvestment by suppliers. Our underinvestment results in particular are more pronounced when suppliers (1) are more exposed to customers with greater credit risk and financial constraints, lower cash flows, and higher trade credit, and (2) have a higher share of total sales from their top customers, lower inventory turnover, and membership in the durable goods industries. These results are consistent with tax uncertainty exacerbating the holdup problem—suppliers underinvest in relationship-specific assets when they are concerned about risks associated with their customers’ tax uncertainty. Overall, our study provides evidence on the importance of tax uncertainty spillovers to key external stakeholders of the firm—suppliers.

Keywords: investment, supply chain, tax uncertainty, unrecognized tax benefits

JEL Classification: D40, E22, G31, H25, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Tzu-Ting and Fischer, Darcia and Lisowsky, Petro and Traini, Simone, Customer Tax Uncertainty and Supplier Investment (May 22, 2025). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4777053, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4777053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4777053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
S Agca , V Babich , J R Birge , J Wu
Credit Shock Propagation Along Supply Chains: Evidence from the CDS Market
Management Sci , volume 68 , issue 9 , p. 6506 - 6538 Posted: 2022
S Alnahedh , S Bhagat , I Obreja
Employment, Corporate Investment, and Cash-Flow Risk
J. Financial Quant. Anal , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 1855 - 1898 Posted: 2019
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax Boycotts. Accounting Rev , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How Does Financial Reporting Quality Relate to Investment Efficiency?
J. Accounting Econom , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
959
RANK
478,514
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies