Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Collection Taxes: Evidence from Romania

Revista de Științe Politice. Revue des Sciences Politiques, no. 80, pp. 39 – 46, 2023

8 Pages Posted: 9 May 2024

Narcis Eduard Mitu

University of Craiova

George Teodor Mitu

University of Craiova, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: November 30, 2023

Abstract

The achievement of high performance levels in fiscal administration is a key goal for governments aiming to ensure the welfare of their citizens. To assess the efficiency and effectiveness of tax administration, relevant indicators are used, as proposed by the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), which categorises them into three main groups: quality and service, compliance, and cost.

Quality and service indicators focus on aspects like waiting times for taxpayers or their satisfaction with service quality. Compliance indicators gauge how well taxpayers fulfil their fiscal obligations. Cost indicators account for administrative expenses related to tax collection.

Administrative costs play a crucial role in tax collection. Efforts to reduce these costs without compromising revenue collection are pivotal. However, international comparisons of the "cost of collection" ratio can be challenging due to factors such as varying tax structures, administrative differences, and changes in tax policy, which are beyond operational efficiency and effectiveness.

In the case of Romania, administrative costs were determined as a proxy for tax collection costs. The "cost of collection" ratio in Romania for 2022 was calculated to be 1.76, indicating relatively high administrative costs.

Although the "cost of collection" ratio is a valuable measure for evaluating tax administration performance over time, its applicability to international comparisons is limited due to the complex factors that influence this ratio. Consequently, additional considerations, such as disparities in tax structures, differences in revenue administration, and varying administrative functions, are essential for understanding the full context of tax collection efficiency and effectiveness.

Keywords: tax cost, public cost, tax performance, compliance, cost of collection ratio

JEL Classification: D61, H21, H27, K34

Suggested Citation:

Mitu, Narcis Eduard and Mitu, George Teodor, The Cost of Collection Taxes: Evidence from Romania (November 30, 2023). Revista de Științe Politice. Revue des Sciences Politiques, no. 80, pp. 39 – 46, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4779421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Araki , Claus , I
A Comparative Analysis on Tax Administration in Asia and the Pacific. Asian Development Bank Posted: 2014
Adb
A Comparative Analysis of Tax Administration in Asia and the Pacific Posted: 2022
; Manila , D D'andria , M Heinemann
Overview on the tax compliance costs faced by European enterpriseswith a focus on SMEs, Policy Department for Economic, Scientific and Quality of Life Policies Posted: 2023
S Sarralde Míguez
Tax Administrations: Collection, Costs and Personnel Evidence for the CIAT Countries with data of ISORA, Working paper
Interamerican Center of Tax Administration -CIAT Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
636,031
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies