Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Fly alone, die alone”? The clan and the production of tax expertise

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Maryse Mayer

Université Laval - School of Accounting

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Date Written: March 30, 2024

Abstract

How do tax advisors make themselves comfortable with the tax planning arrangements they recommend to their clients, in the many gray areas that characterize their field of practice? What motivates tax advisors to consult each other in this context? In this field study, we examine the processes that help (re)produce an influential informal norm of peer consultation surrounding the work of tax partners in accounting firms. Based on interviews with 36 tax advisors, most of them partners in accounting firms, our analysis focuses on rationalization processes surrounding the informal consultation norm. Our findings shed light on partners’ heavy reliance on this norm, to comfort themselves in exercising interpretive judgment about the meaning of tax rules. Clan monitoring and mutual support both play a significant role in the process. As such, our study illustrates how peer consultation operates as an interpretive practice socially embedded in clan processes. Partners negotiate the shared meaning of the law through clan-based interactions with their peers until a consensus is reached: the tax planning arrangement is then perceived to be robust enough and able to withstand external challenges. Overall, our analysis points to a need to step back from the current tax avoidance debate, to better understand how clan-based interpretive judgments develop and operate in practice, in their social context. We also hope to influence the discipline’s research agenda by encouraging academics to seek a better understanding of tax planning in action.

Keywords: tax planning work; professional service firms; clan-based knowledge production processes, production of comfort, peer consultation, informal social norm.

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Maryse and Gendron, Yves, “Fly alone, die alone”? The clan and the production of tax expertise (March 30, 2024). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782719
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies