Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coordination of Tax Preferential Policies, Free Cash Flow and Enterprise R&D Investment: Evidence from China

41 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Chunyuan Wang

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Na Zhang

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Jiaxing Zheng

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Abstract

The article explores the coordinated effects of foreign technology introduction tax policy(FTITP) and R&D investment deduction policy. It is found that both FTITP and deduction policy have promotion and incentive effects on enterprise R&D investment, and more importantly, the coordination effect of the two tax incentives is greater and the incentive effect is more significant. The mechanism analysis shows that the technological introduction of tax incentives strengthens the implementation effect of the deduction policy by "increasing" and "crowding in" free cash flow, which makes the coordination effect of the two incentives greater. Heterogeneity analysis shows that the magnitude of the coordinated effect of tax incentives varies according to different factors such as different stages of the life cycle of the enterprise, whether it is a high-tech enterprise or not, the nature of ownership, and whether it is an industrial enterprise.

Keywords: Tax Preferential Policies, R&D investment, Introduction of Foreign Technology, Additional Deductions, Coordination Effect

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Chunyuan and Zhang, Na and Zheng, Jiaxing, Coordination of Tax Preferential Policies, Free Cash Flow and Enterprise R&D Investment: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4783830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4783830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Fiscal & Monetary Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies