Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Capital: Capital Levies and Commitment

NBER Working Paper No. w32306

28 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2024 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Robert J. Barro

Harvard University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Varadarajan Chari

University of Minnesota - Minneapolis

Date Written: April 2024

Abstract

Chamley and Judd argued that optimal taxation dictates zero long-run tax rates on capital income, but Straub and Werning found that tax rates may be positive even in the steady state. These models feature a “period-zero problem” in the underlying Ramsey formulation, which omits past commitments but includes future ones. The period-zero policymaker then imposes capital levies on initial assets—directly or indirectly through positive tax rates on future asset income and non-constant tax rates on consumption. Chari, Nicolini, and Teles add commitment by the period-zero policymaker to households’ initial wealth in utility units. In this case, a nonzero capital levy may apply in period zero, future tax rates on asset income equal zero, and tax rates on consumption are constant. Time-consistency fails if future policymakers are unconstrained but holds if commitments to initial wealth in utility units are strict enough each period to motivate each policymaker to choose zero direct capital levies. In that case, a timeless perspective applies where period zero is not special, tax rates on asset income are always zero, and tax rates on consumption are constant. Introduction of uncertainty generates state-contingent levies on assets and random-walk-like variations in consumption tax rates.

Suggested Citation:

Barro, Robert J. and Chari, Varadarajan, Taxation of Capital: Capital Levies and Commitment (April 2024). NBER Working Paper No. w32306, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Roc Armenter
A Note on Incomplete Factor Taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 92 , p. 2275 - 2281 Posted: 2008-10
Robert J Barro
On the Determination of the Public Debt
Journal of Political Economy , volume 87 , p. 940 - 971 Posted: 1979-10
Robert J Barro
On the Predictability of Tax-Rate Changes
R.J. Barro, Macroeconomic Policy Posted: 1990
Robert J Barro , Francesco Bianchi
Fiscal Influences on Inflation in OECD Countries
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,668
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies