Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Trump Tax Reform Plan: Implications for Europe

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 6a (special issue) ; p. 8-14; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2fd9evs

Posted: 10 Apr 2024

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gianluca Mazzoni

University of Michigan Law School; Università degli Studi di Bergamo

Date Written: June 26, 2017

Abstract

The Republican majority in Congress and President Trump have advanced several proposals for reforming the US tax system. The details vary, and that variation has significant implications for European foreign direct investment (FDI) into the United States and for US FDI into the European Union. Under the House Blueprint, the United States will become (from an EU tax perspective) the world's largest corporate tax haven, leading to an increase in EU direct investment into the United States. Under the Trump Plan, there will be additional incentives for US multinationals to shift profits to Europe. This article discusses similarities and differences between the House Blueprint and Trump Plan, and their implications for FDI.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: tax reform, foreign investment

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Mazzoni, Gianluca, The Trump Tax Reform Plan: Implications for Europe (June 26, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 6a (special issue) ; p. 8-14; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2fd9evs, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787647
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
75
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies