Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Between the Sword and the Wall: Navigating the Brazilian Tax Labyrinth Through Tax Aggressiveness and Tax Litigiousness

21 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Marielza Santos do Nascimento

FUCAPE Business School

Julia Leite Coutinho

FUCAPE Business School

Josiel Caldas Rodrigues

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: April 9, 2024

Abstract

This study deepens our understanding of tax aggressiveness and litigation dynamics in the Brazilian tax context. Using data from companies listed on B3 between 2017 and 2022, we examine how different metrics of tax aggressiveness (ETR, BTD, and TTVA) influence the incidence of legal disputes with tax authorities. The results indicate a positive correlation between tax aggressiveness and litigation, revealing that more aggressive tax strategies tend to result in more disputes. Notably, the tax burden in relation to value added (TTVA) emerges as the metric with the most significant impact on litigation, suggesting that efforts to reduce the tax burden can amplify legal disputes. For accounting professionals, these findings underscore the need to navigate between tax optimization and litigation risk carefully, promoting strategies that balance tax effectiveness with regulatory compliance. This research makes a significant contribution to the accounting and tax law field, providing evidence that can guide the formulation of public policies for a more efficient and fair tax system, minimizing tax disputes and encouraging adherence to tax rules. The study's limitation is its focus on B3 companies, suggesting the need for future research covering non-listed companies and international comparative analysis to enrich the understanding of interaction in different economic and regulatory contexts.

Keywords: Tax Litigation; Tax Aggressiveness

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Nascimento, Marielza and Coutinho, Julia and Rodrigues, Josiel, Between the Sword and the Wall: Navigating the Brazilian Tax Labyrinth Through Tax Aggressiveness and Tax Litigiousness (April 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4789394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4789394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M Abraham , J R Catarino
The use of artificial intelligence in the application of public law-the special case of the collection of tax credits-a study objectified in the Brazilian and Portuguese cases
Pública , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 188 - 219 Posted: 2019
H M B Alcântara , J Bispo , Souza , J S Rocha , Da , A C R Silva , Da
Foreign investment and tax aggressiveness of companies listed on the Brazilian stock exchange
Revista de Gestão e Secretariado (Management and Administrative Professional Review) , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 1433 - 1449 Posted: 2023
E Andrés-Aucejo
Towards an International Code for administrative cooperation in tax matter and international tax governance
Revista Derecho del Estado , issue 40 , p. 45 - 85 Posted: 2018
H W Apriyanti , M Arifin
Tax aggressiveness determinants
Journal of Islami Accounting and Finance Researchl , volume 3 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
880,951
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies