Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealth Tax Mobility and Tax Coordination

CESifo Working Paper No. 11048

65 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Dirk Foremny

University of Barcelona (Department of Economics); Institut d'Economia de Barcelona; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Clara Martinez-Toledano

Imperial College London

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2023

Abstract

We study the effects of decentralized wealth taxation on mobility and the effectiveness of tax coordination at mitigating tax competition. We exploit the reintroduction of the Spanish wealth tax, after which all regions except Madrid levied positive tax rates. We find the mobility responses to wealth taxes are within the range of prior estimates with respect to income taxes. However, wealth tax mobility responses generate losses to personal income tax revenues that are six times larger than the direct losses to wealth taxes. Madrid could achieve higher total regional revenues by agreeing to a harmonized positive tax rate.

Keywords: wealth taxes, mobility, fiscal decentralization, fiscal federalism, tax coordination

JEL Classification: E210, H240, H310, H730, J610, R230

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Foremny, Dirk and Martinez-Toledano, Clara, Wealth Tax Mobility and Tax Coordination (October 2023). CESifo Working Paper No. 11048, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4793904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4793904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Ole Agersnap , Owen Zidar
The Tax Elasticity of Capital Gains and Revenue-Maximizing Rates
American Economic Review: Insights , p. 399 - 416 Posted: 2021
David R Agrawal
Limits to Competition: Strategies for Promoting Jurisdictional Cooperation Posted: 2023
David R Agrawal , Dirk Foremny
Relocation of the Rich: Migration in Response to Top Tax Rate Changes from Spanish Reforms
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 214 - 232 Posted: 2019
Agrawal David , R , Dirk Foremny , Clara Martínez-Toledano
Data and Code for: Wealth Tax Mobility and Tax Coordination
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
893
RANK
14,376
6 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies