Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charting New Waters: Submarine Cables and the Surge of Multinationals' Activities in Tax Haven Islands

22 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 Apr 2024

Baptiste Souillard

Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB); Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) - European Center for Advanced Research in Economics and Statistics (ECARES)

Date Written: April 14, 2024

Abstract

Do information and communication technologies contribute to global tax dodging? This paper examines the impact of the staggered arrival of submarine cables in remote tax havens on US multinationals' activities in these jurisdictions. Difference-indifference estimations show that accounting for systematic differences across firms and jurisdictions, companies were considerably more prone to disclose subsidiaries in a tax haven island after the deployment of submarine cables in that island. Interestingly, the increase in foreign direct investments triggered by the deployment of submarine cables is higher in tax haven islands than in other non-haven islands. Digitalization made tax haven islands relatively more accessible, making it easier for large corporations to move and anchor profits in offshore financial centers.

Keywords: Multinational enterprises, corporate tax avoidance, profit shifting, digitalization, submarine cables, FDI F23, H26, O33

JEL Classification: F23, H26, O33.

Suggested Citation:

Souillard, Baptiste, Charting New Waters: Submarine Cables and the Surge of Multinationals' Activities in Tax Haven Islands (April 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4793996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4793996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Amador , S Cabral
Global value chains: A survey of drivers and measures
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 30 , p. 278 - 301 Posted: 2016
J M Argilés-Bosch , A Somoza , D Ravenda , J García-Blandón
An empirical examination of the influence of e-commerce on tax avoidance in Europe
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 41 Posted: 2020
R Blundell , S Bond
Initial conditions and moment restrictions in dynamic panel data models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 87 , p. 115 - 143 Posted: 1998
B Callaway , P H Sant , Anna
Difference-in-differences with multiple time periods
Journal of Econometrics , volume 225 , p. 200 - 230 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
538
RANK
385,002
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies