Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of tax enforcement digitalization on corporate digital transformation: Evidence from China's listed companies

71 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 6 Jan 2025

Yanhui Xu

Northwest University

Qianbin Feng

Southwest Minzu University

Date Written: November 02, 2024

Abstract

In China, the policy of tax enforcement digitalization has been introduced with the implementation of the CTAIS-3 project. In this policy context, we study the impact of tax enforcement digitization on corporate digital transformation (CDTM) from both theoretical and empirical perspectives. Our results suggest that the introduction of tax enforcement digitalization inhibits CDTM, and further mechanism investigation indicates that this impact is realized through two channels: increasing the tax burden on firms and reducing firms' risk preference. Heterogeneity analysis shows that at the provincial level, the negative impact of tax enforcement digitalization on CDTM is greater in provinces with greater fiscal pressure. At the firm level, the negative effect of tax enforcement digitalization on CDTM is more significant for firms with lower levels of governance and firms with greater fiscal constraints. In addition, we find that the CATIS-3 project does help governments to provide more subsidies to innovative firms, but does not further reduce or improve CDTM. Our study reveals the potential economic consequences of the implementation of tax enforcement digitalization policies at the micro-firm level, which provides a useful reference for future tax reforms in developing countries.

Keywords: Tax enforcement technology, digital transformation, tax administration information system, difference-in-difference model, tax burden.

JEL Classification: H25; M21

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Yanhui and Feng, Qianbin, The effect of tax enforcement digitalization on corporate digital transformation: Evidence from China's listed companies (November 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4794055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4794055
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
130 References
S Agarwal , Y Han , Y Qin
Disguised pollution: Industrial activities in the dark[J]
Journal of Public Economics , volume 223 Posted: 2023
P Aghion , U Akcigit , P Howitt
The Schumpeterian growth paradigm[J]
economics , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 557 - 575 Posted: 2015
U Akcigit , S Baslandze , S Stantcheva
Taxation and the international mobility of inventors[J]
American Economic Review , volume 106 , issue 10 , p. 2930 - 2981 Posted: 2016
M Ali , A Shifa , A Shimeles
Information technology and fiscal capacity in a developing country: evidence from Ethiopia Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
409,562
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies