Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the FATCA Withholding Tax on Us Investment Abroad

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 8 ; p. 483-487; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/35ds0x3

Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Johan Hagelin

Independent

Date Written: June 29, 2018

Abstract

This article is based on a study of the effects of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) on US investment abroad. It provides evidence suggesting the possibility of a positive correlation between FATCA participation and US investment abroad due to the withholding tax on payments to foreign financial institutions in non-participating jurisdictions.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: FATCA, foreign investment, exchange of information, withholding tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hagelin, Johan, The Effect of the FATCA Withholding Tax on Us Investment Abroad (June 29, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 8 ; p. 483-487; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/35ds0x3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795835
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
48
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies