Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the BEPS Multilateral Instrument on International Tax Policies

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 234-247; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/gknrrv

Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

Date Written: March 14, 2018

Abstract

This article assesses the impact of the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (MLI) by analysing the preliminary reservations of signatory countries, while offering some speculative points about the influence of the MLI on international tax policies and the OECD Model.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, tax avoidance, BEPS, tax policy, MLI

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hattingh, Johann, The Impact of the BEPS Multilateral Instrument on International Tax Policies (March 14, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 234-247; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/gknrrv, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795723
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies