Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implementation of the Controlled Foreign Company Rules in the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive in Finland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands: The Effects on the Holding Company Structures of Finnish Groups

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 3 ; p. 172-187; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/383z3fg

Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Antti Tokola

Independent

Date Written: February 14, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the author considers the implications of the implementation of the controlled foreign company (CFC) rules in the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) (2016/1164) in Finland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, with special emphasis on the effects regarding the holding company structures of Finnish groups.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: CFC, ATAD, holding company, PE, GAAR, international tax planning, advance tax ruling, APA, patent box

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Tokola, Antti, The Implementation of the Controlled Foreign Company Rules in the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive in Finland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands: The Effects on the Holding Company Structures of Finnish Groups (February 14, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 3 ; p. 172-187; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/383z3fg, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795711
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies