Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveling the Playing Field? A Qualitative and Quantitative Examination of the EU Directive on Public Country-by-Country Reporting

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 145

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 24-019

47 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Hannah Gundert

ZEW Mannheim

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Stefan Weck

Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: March 25, 2024

Abstract

The recent enactment of Directive 2021/2101 by the EU introduces a public Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR) regime, with the aim of promoting a level playing field for businesses operating within the EU Single Market. The directive seeks to bolster tax transparency requirements for multinational enterprises (MNEs), with the objective of reducing disparities in international tax planning potential when compared to smaller, domestic firms. However, the efficacy of public CbCR in achieving this objective hinges on equitable treatment of MNEs, irrespective of their geographical location. In this study, we examine whether the public CbCR Directive introduces unintended disparities between (1) MNEs domiciled in different EU member states and (2) MNEs domiciled within and outside of the EU. Employing an expert survey, we assess the national implementation of the directive across member states, revealing significant variations, particularly concerning the deferment of sensitive information disclosure and permitted data sources. Subsequently, conducting a descriptive analysis of firm-level financial and ownership data, we analyze the differential impact on MNEs domiciled within versus outside the EU. Our findings indicate that the directive predominantly affects MNEs headquartered in the EU, with these entities disclosing, on average, a significantly higher proportion of their global operations on a disaggregated, country-by-country basis. We conclude that the current form and implementation of the directive likely introduces unintended disparities, contrary to the intended goal of establishing a level playing field, and suggest stronger guidance and fewer transposition options.

Keywords: F23, G38, H26, M41

JEL Classification: tax transparency, tax disclosure, country-by-country reporting, European Union

Suggested Citation:

Gundert, Hannah and Spengel, Christoph and Weck, Stefan, Leveling the Playing Field? A Qualitative and Quantitative Examination of the EU Directive on Public Country-by-Country Reporting (March 25, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 145, ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 24-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4796069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4796069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Notes: The table depicts the most frequent headquarter locations of affected and unaffected sample firms
Hamilton Asay , ; Scott , Jeffrey L Hoopes , Jacob ; Thornock , Wilde , H Jaron
Tax Boycotts , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
Alissa I Brühne , Deborah Schanz
Defining and Managing Corporate Tax Risk: Perceptions of Tax Risk Experts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 2861 - 2902 Posted: 2022
Bureau van Dijk historical ownership databases. User Guide -2022 Q4 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
388,855
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies