Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Audit Quality: The Role of Experience and Technology Readiness in a Digitalized World

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-02

54 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 16 Apr 2024

Maarten Sigle

Nyenrode Business University

Stephan Muehlbacher

University of Vienna - Department of Psychology

Lisette E. C. J. M. van der Hel

Nyenrode Business University

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Date Written: April 16, 2024

Abstract

Society is digitising at a rapid pace and tax authorities have to keep up with profound changes in how companies administer their tax liabilities. Tax auditors must be able to achieve an efficient and effective audit quality regardless of the degree of digitisation and digitalisation implemented by the audited companies. Previous research shows a positive correlation between audit experience and audit quality. However, it is unclear whether more experience – which was most likely acquired in traditional audits of accounting systems with a low level of digitalisation – is also beneficial in a changing environment with more highly digitalised companies. We argue that more experienced tax auditors are only superior to less experienced auditors in this changing environment if they are sufficiently willing and equipped to use new technologies and more digitized data. We expect – and find – that experienced tax auditors with adequate technology readiness achieve a higher audit quality in detecting IT risks than tax auditors with less experience and/or less technology readiness. Our results, however, also show also that more experienced tax auditors do not perform better in detecting traditional risks (i.e., not IT-related risks) than less experienced auditors. Overall, our results suggest that experience without the propensity to embrace and use new technologies and more digitized data might not be enough to achieve the required audit quality levels in the future. We therefore emphasize the importance of appropriate training (to adapt new ways of working and to acquire competencies to understand new technologies) and strategic composition of the tax authorities’ audit teams.

Keywords: Audit quality, Tax audits, Experience, Digitalisation, Technology Readiness

JEL Classification: H2, H26

Suggested Citation:

Sigle, Maarten and Muehlbacher, Stephan and J. M. van der Hel, Lisette E. C. and Kirchler, Erich, Tax Audit Quality: The Role of Experience and Technology Readiness in a Digitalized World (April 16, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4796000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4796000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
W Alissa , V Capkun , T Jeanjean , N Suca
An empirical investigation of the impact of audit and auditor characteristics on auditor performance
Accounting, Organizations & Society , volume 39 , issue 7 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2014
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
B H Anderson , M Maletta
Auditor attendance to negative and positive information: The effect of experience-related differences
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 6 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,529
RANK
153,575
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies