Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Value-Added Tax Refund Policy Inhibit Corporate Financial Fraud? Evidence from China

36 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2024

WEI YU

Ningbo University

Abstract

Taking the "Finance and Taxation [2018] No.70" document as a quasi-natural experiment, this paper empirically test the impact of the value-added tax refund policy (VATRP) on corporate financial fraud. Our study reveals that the VATRP significantly inhibits corporate financial fraud. Our mechanism tests show that the VATRP inhibits corporate financial fraud by easing the motivation pressure of, compressing the opportunities for, and eliminating rational excuses for corporate financial fraud. Additional tests demonstrate that the inhibitory effect on financial fraud of the VATRP is more pronounced in high-tech firms and private capital holding firms.

Keywords: Value-added Tax Refund Policy, Fraud Triangle Theory, Corporate Financial Fraud

Suggested Citation:

YU, WEI, Can Value-Added Tax Refund Policy Inhibit Corporate Financial Fraud? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4799303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4799303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
R G Akhmadeev , M E Kosov , O A Bykanova , K V Ekimova , S V Frumina , N V Philippova
Impact of Tax Burden on the Country's Investments
Journal of Applied Economic Sciences Posted: 2016
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: a multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
S Arjoon
Corporate governance: An ethical perspective
Journal of business ethics , volume 61 , p. 343 - 352 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies