Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Non-Streamlined Sales Tax Administration: Evidence from the Florida Hotel Industry

64 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Jennifer L. Brown

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

David G. Kenchington

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Roger M. White

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 19, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether local administration of sales taxes (as opposed to more streamlined state administration) affects the real economy for businesses complying with the tax. We study this question in the Florida hotel industry, as counties in Florida can choose to locally administer the county-level tourist tax or have the state administer the county-level tax along with the state-level tourist tax. Local administration is popular because it supports local employment (of tax administrators) and provides more stringent enforcement on non-commercial operators (e.g., private rentals). State administration, however, has fewer compliance costs for hotels (e.g., reduced filings, fewer audits). Commentary from the profession suggests the incremental compliance costs of local administration can be considerable. We find that counties switching from state to local administration of tourist taxes predicts slower growth in aggregate hotel payroll and employment, consistent with local tax administration increasing compliance costs to the point that affected businesses cut other services.

Keywords: tax administration, sales tax, consumption tax, tax complexity

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H25, H71, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Jennifer L. and Casas-Arce, Pablo and Kenchington, David G. and White, Roger M., Real Effects of Non-Streamlined Sales Tax Administration: Evidence from the Florida Hotel Industry (April 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4801055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4801055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
W B Afonso
The Barriers Created by Complexity: A State-by-State Analysis of Local Sales Tax Laws in Light of the Wayfair Ruling
National Tax Journal , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 777 - 799 Posted: 2019
S R Baker , S Johnson , L Kueng
Shopping for Lower Sales Tax Rates
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 250 Posted: 2021
J M Barrios
Staggeringly Problematic: A Primer on Staggered DiD for Accounting Researchers Posted: 2021
F J Boehmke , R Witmer
Disentangling Diffusion: The Effects of Social Learning and Economic Competition on State Policy Innovation and Expansion
Political Research Quarterly , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 51 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
668,003
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies