Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Burdens and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from Sales Tax Complexity

50 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024

David G. Kenchington

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Christian S. Paparcuri

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Jared D. Smith

North Carolina State University - Poole College of Management

Roger M. White

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 19, 2024

Abstract

In most U.S. states, the state department of revenue administers local sales taxes alongside the state-level sales tax, and then later remits local revenues to local governments. Some states,
however, allow local governments to administer their own sales taxes. Commentary from the
profession suggests that taxpayers sometimes incur significant, incremental compliance costs
when facing multiple sales tax administrators, such as when local and state sales taxes are
administered separately. We examine whether this incremental compliance burden is meaningful
enough to discourage small business formation and survival in the Alabama restaurant industry
(a dynamic industry in a state notorious for sales taxes complexity). In within-Zip code tests, we
find that rising sales tax complexity predicts falling numbers of restaurants, particularly for small
restaurants. These results are consistent with the idea that locally dictated dimensions of tax
complexity can increase compliance costs to the point of discouraging small business formation
and survival.

Keywords: small business, compliance costs, tax administration, tax complexity

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H25, H71, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kenchington, David G. and Paparcuri, Christian S. and Smith, Jared D. and White, Roger M., Regulatory Burdens and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from Sales Tax Complexity (April 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4801079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4801079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Daniel Aaronson , Eric French , Isaac Sorkin , Ted To
Industry Dynamics and the Minimum Wage: A Putty-Clay Approach
International Economic Review , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 84 Posted: 2018
Ufuk Akcigit , Sina T Ates
Ten Facts on Declining Business Dynamism and Lessons from Endogenous Growth Theory
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 257 - 298 Posted: 2021
Abigail Allen , Melissa F Lewis-Western , Kristen Valentine
The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 95 Posted: 2022
Eric J Allen , C Jeffrey , Sharat Allen , David H Raghavan , Solomon
On the Tax Efficiency of Startup Firms
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 1887 - 1928 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
618,773
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies