Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quantifying the impacts of tax distortions on Misallocation and Productivity

29 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024 Last revised: 8 Nov 2024

Eduardo Correia

Insper Institute of Education and Research

Marcelo Rodrigues Santos

Insper Institute of Education and Research

Leonardo de Siqueira Lima

Instituto de Ensino e Pesquisa (INSPER)

Date Written: April 23, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of tax distortions on resource misallocation
and aggregate productivity in the Brazilian manufacturing sector. Using
a method similar to Hsieh and Klenow (2009), we distinguish between general
and tax-specific distortions, and build counterfactuals where tax rate heterogeneity
is successively removed from within and between sectors. Leveraging
firm-level administrative data, our empirical findings reveal that, under all
current inefficiencies, the baseline economy operates at only 68% of its potential
productivity. Equalizing tax rates within sectors, while allowing for intersectoral
variability, improves the efficiency gap to 79%. Finally, eliminating tax
inefficiencies across sectors raises efficiency to 84%. These results highlight the
significant role of tax distortions as a source of misallocation. They also indicate
that policy reforms targeted at within-sector tax rate uniformization are
the ones most likely to yield significant productivity gains.

Keywords: Resource misallocation, Total factor productivity, Tax distortions, Brazilian manufacturing sector.

JEL Classification: O4 , O11 , E6

Suggested Citation:

Correia, Eduardo and Santos, Marcelo Rodrigues and de Siqueira Lima, Leonardo, Quantifying the impacts of tax distortions on Misallocation and Productivity (April 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4803687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4803687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
G L D Amaral , J E Olenike , L M F D Amaral , C L Yazbek
Quantidade de normas editadas no Brasil: 35 anos da Constituição Federal de 1988
Instituto Brasileiro de Planejamento e Tributação Posted: 2023
F J Buera , J P Kaboski , And Y Shin
Finance and development: A tale of two sectors
American Economic Review , volume 101 Posted: 1964
F N I Chen
VAT rate dispersion and TFP loss in China's manufacturing sector
Economics Letters , volume 155 , p. 49 - 54 Posted: 1920
P Epifani , G A Gancia
Trade, markup heterogeneity and misallocations
Journal of International Economics , volume 83 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
511,635
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies