Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Minimum Tax for Large Firms Only: Implications for Tax Competition

40 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2024 Last revised: 16 Dec 2024

Andreas Haufler

University of Munich - Seminar for Economic Policy; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Hayato Kato

Osaka University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

The Global Minimum Tax (GMT) is applied only to firms above a certain size threshold, permitting countries to set differential tax rates for small and large firms. We analyze tax competition among multiple tax havens and a non-haven country for heterogeneous multinationals to evaluate the effects of this partial coverage of GMT. Upon the introduction of a moderately low GMT rate, the havens commit to the single uniform GMT rate for all multinationals. However, gradual increases in the GMT rate induce the havens, and subsequently the non-haven, to adopt discriminatory, lower tax rates for small multinationals. Our calibration exercise shows that the implementation of a 15% GMT rate results in a regime where only the havens adopt split tax rates. Upon GMT introduction, welfare and tax revenues fall in the tax havens but rise in the non-haven, yielding a positive net gain worldwide.

Keywords: tax avoidance, global minimum tax, profit shifting, multinational firms

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H87

Suggested Citation:

Haufler, Andreas and Kato, Hayato, A Global Minimum Tax for Large Firms Only: Implications for Tax Competition (December 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4803106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4803106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S M Auliffe , G U Thunecke , G Wamser
The tax-elasticity of tangible fixed assets: Evidence from novel corporate tax data Posted: 2023
M Bajgar , G Berlingieri , S Calligaris , C Criscuolo , J Timmis
Coverage and representativeness of Orbis data Posted: 2020
R E Baldwin , T Okubo
Tax reform, delocation, and heterogeneous firms
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 111 , issue 4 , p. 741 - 764 Posted: 2009
M Baraké , P.-E Chouc , T Neef , G Zucman
Revenue effects of the global minimum tax under pillar two
Intertax , volume 50 , issue 10 , p. 689 - 710 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,709
RANK
373,668
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies