Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Data as an Instrument of Economic Digital Constitutionalism: Elements for a Normative Agenda

Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law & International Law (MPIL) Research Paper No. 2024-14

Forthcoming in: European Law Open, vol. 3 (2024), issue 2

32 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024 Last revised: 15 Sep 2025

Angelo Golia

Luiss Guido Carli University - Department of Law

Date Written: April 25, 2024

Abstract

Digital constitutionalism rarely focuses on value creation, extraction, and distribution. Using data taxation as an entry point, this article introduces a symposium that contributes to filling this gap and sketches the elements of a normative agenda. The contributions to the symposium advance different proposals, but they share the view that the externalities of informational capitalism have constitutional significance. Based on this view, this introduction shows the interconnectedness of four distinct issues: 1) the impact of excessive datafication on modern societies; 2) the role of data in contemporary economy; 3) the design of taxes; 4) the interaction of data taxation with other legal regimes and social justice issues, also at the global level. The first goal is to increase the dialogue among strands of legal scholarship that do not necessarily speak the same language. The second goal is to expand the analytical and normative scope of digital constitutionalism which—the articles concludes—cannot address such issues as accidental elements but needs to be (also) an economic constitutionalism. The article proceeds as follows. After the introduction, section 2 focuses on the link between the digital revolution and constitutional states, especially on their role in value creation, extraction, and distribution. Section 3 identifies such an issue as a gap in digital constitutionalism and opens the way to the following sections. Section 4 is divided into four subsections. Subsection 4.1 stresses the need for critical approaches to datafication, which needs to be seen as an autonomous object of regulation. Subsection 4.2 highlights the role of data within the data economy and offers normative justifications for its taxation. Subsection 4.3 highlights the need to include Pigouvian, progressive, and rent-targeting elements into concrete data tax design. Section 4.4 puts these issues within the context of (global) economic governance, highlighting the role of political institutions in creating, extracting, and distributing value and the political nature of the underlying policy choices. Section 5 concludes.

Keywords: digital constitutionalism, informational capitalism, datafication, data taxation, economic constitutionalism, global governance, law and globalisation, law and political economy

Suggested Citation:

Golia, Angelo Jr and Teubner, Gunther, Taxing Data as an Instrument of Economic Digital Constitutionalism: Elements for a Normative Agenda (April 25, 2024). Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law & International Law (MPIL) Research Paper No. 2024-14, Forthcoming in: European Law Open, vol. 3 (2024), issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4807415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Anne Peters , Rüdiger Wolfrum
On the elusive concept of governance, see only Karl-Heinz Ladeur
MPEPIL Posted: 2010
Cf , Liam Murphy , Thomas Nagel
For a historical analysis based on the case of post-WWI Belgium, see Simon Watteyne , p. 78 - 95 Posted: 2002
Jürgen Habermas
Reflections and Hypotheses on a Further Structural Transformation of the Political Public Sphere' (2022) 39 Theory
Culture & Society , volume 145
Salomé Viljoen
A Relational Theory of Data Governance' (2021) 131
The Onlife Manifesto. Being Human in a Hyperconnected Era , volume 573 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
461,979
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative & Non-U.S. Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies