Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Geography of the U.S. Property Tax

84 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Francesco Ruggieri

University of Chicago - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 26, 2024

Abstract

I construct a novel, granular georeferenced dataset on the universe of local governments in the United States and their property tax rates from the early 2000s to 2022. Using this dataset, I present new descriptive insights on the geography of the property tax. First, property tax rates exhibit substantial variation within states, surpassing that of any other local tax. Second, rates are higher in locations where a greater number of jurisdictions overlap and thus share tax base. Third, rates are higher in areas with larger dispersion in property values and greater racial and ethnic heterogeneity. Fourth, new local taxing jurisdictions are more likely to be formed in locations where the distribution of income is more even and dispersion in housing values is lower.

Keywords: Property Taxes, Local Governments

JEL Classification: H71, H72, H73, R51

Suggested Citation:

Ruggieri, Francesco, The Geography of the U.S. Property Tax (April 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4808970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4808970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
748
RANK
610,038
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies