Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treatment of Commuter Cost

CESifo Working Paper No. 11080

31 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Vidar Christiansen

University of Oslo - Department of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Odd E. Nygard

Statistics Norway

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

The paper discusses the tax treatment of commuting where wages and housing cost vary across locations. An income tax distorts the locational choices of agents, who dislike commuting and have preferences for place of residence Wages, housing cost and commuting cost determine how subsidising or taxing commuting affects behaviour and social efficiency. A subsidy encourages commuting and induces agents to choose a more favourable living place. The analysis clarifies the circumstances in which the subsidy alleviates or exacerbates the tax distortions, also where housing is tax favoured, as is often the case. The distributional impact depends on the effects of wages on commuting. An empirical illustration based on Norwegian data shows how one can infer efficiency effects of responses to subsidies on commuting.

Keywords: income tax, commuting, commuter cost, subsidies on commuting, place of residence

JEL Classification: H210, H240

Suggested Citation:

Christiansen, Vidar and Nygard, Odd E., Tax Treatment of Commuter Cost (2024). CESifo Working Paper No. 11080, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
D R Agrawal , W H Hoyt
Commuting and taxes: Theory, empirics and welfare implications
The Economic Journal , volume 128 , p. 2969 - 3007 Posted: 2018
R D Agrawal , E J Elke , E Janeba ; Beck , R , M Wrede
Do commuting subsidies drive workers to better firms? CESifo Working Paper No. 10981
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 57 , p. 478 - 499 Posted: 2005
R Beck , M Wrede
Subsidies for intracity and intercity commuting
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 66 , p. 25 - 32 Posted: 2005
M J Boehm
Concentration versus re-matching? Evidence about locational effects on commuting costs Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies