Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Minimum Tax for Large Firms Only: Implications for Tax Competition

CESifo Working Paper No. 11087

34 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Andreas Haufler

University of Munich - Seminar for Economic Policy; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Hayato Kato

Osaka University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

The Global Minimum Tax (GMT) is applied only to firms above a certain size threshold, permitting countries to set differential tax rates for small and large firms. We analyse tax competition between a tax haven and a non-haven country for heterogeneous multinationals to evaluate the effects of this partial coverage of GMT. We show that the introduction of a moderate GMT increases tax revenues in both the haven and the non-haven countries. Gradual increases in the GMT rate, however, induce the haven to set a discriminatory, lower tax rate on small multinationals, causing revenues in the non-haven country to decline at the switch of regimes. We also discuss the quantitative effects of introducing GMT in a calibrated version of our model.

Keywords: multinational firms, tax avoidance, Global Minimum Tax, profit shifting, tax competition

JEL Classification: F230, H250, H870

Suggested Citation:

Haufler, Andreas and Kato, Hayato, A Global Minimum Tax for Large Firms Only: Implications for Tax Competition (2024). CESifo Working Paper No. 11087, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811799 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
M Bajgar , G Berlingieri , S Calligaris , C Criscuolo , J Timmis
Coverage and representativeness of Orbis data Posted: 2020
R E Baldwin , T Okubo
Tax reform, delocation, and heterogeneous firms
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 111 , issue 4 , p. 741 - 764 Posted: 2009
M Baraké , P.-E Chouc , T Neef , G Zucman
Revenue effects of the global minimum tax under pillar two
Intertax , volume 50 , issue 10 , p. 689 - 710 Posted: 2022
K A Bilicka
Comparing UK tax returns of foreign multinationals to matched domestic firms
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 8 , p. 2921 - 2953 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,576
RANK
373,668
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies