Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power and Peril of Nudging Non-Compliant Firms: A Field Experiment on Tax Compliance

39 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Fabio Yoshio Suguri Motoki

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Lucia Milena Murgia

University of East Anglia (UEA), Norwich Business School

Bruno Funchal

FUCAPE Business School; Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Escola de Pos-Graduacao (EPGE)

Abstract

We explore the power of behavioral nudges to increase tax compliance among non-compliant firms through a large-scale field experiment with the Department of Revenue of Espírito Santo, Brazil. We modify the existing notification letter to include different nudges related to reciprocity, social norms, or salience. Results show that while reciprocity and salience nudges have no impact, social norm nudges exhibit significant economic effects. A majority norm nudge increased payment probability by up to 5.8 percentage points (35% increase), whereas a minority norm nudge sharply decreased it by up to 7.9 percentage points. These contrasting findings, diverging from some previous work, underscore the importance of contextual factors like perceived norms in shaping taxpayer responses to nudges. We highlight the perils of indiscriminately extrapolating nudge-based strategies across diverse cultural settings without understanding the local context. Our results offer guidance for policymakers on effectively leveraging behavioral insights to improve tax compliance.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Firms, Nudges, Field experiment, Social norms, Developing economies

Suggested Citation:

Motoki, Fabio and Murgia, Lucia Milena and Funchal, Bruno, The Power and Peril of Nudging Non-Compliant Firms: A Field Experiment on Tax Compliance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812469 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
L References Abdixhiku , B Krasniqi , G Pugh , I Hashi
Firm-level determinants of tax evasion in transition economies
Economic Systems , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 354 - 366 Posted: 2017
F Alasfour , M G Sandmo , A
Costs of Distrust: The Virtuous Cycle of Tax Compliance in Jordan
Journal of Public Economics , volume 155 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , K M Bloomquist , M Mckee
When You Know Your Neighbour Pays Taxes: Information, Peer Effects and Tax Compliance
Fiscal Studies , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 613 Posted: 2017
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax Morale and Tax Compliance from the Firm's Perspective
Kyklos , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
443
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies