Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Gig Work or Changes in Reporting? Understanding Self-Employment Trends in Tax Data

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-53

72 Pages Posted: 1 May 2024

Andrew Garin

Carnegie Mellon University

Emilie Jackson

Michigan State University

Dmitri Koustas

University of Chicago

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 30, 2024

Abstract

Rising self-employment rates in U.S. tax data that are absent in survey data have led to speculation that tax records capture a rise in new “gig” work that surveys miss. Drawing on the universe of IRS tax returns, we show that trends in firm-reported payments to “gig” and other contract workers do not explain the rise in self-employment reported to the IRS; rather, that increase is driven by self-reported earnings of individuals in the EITC phase-in range. We isolate pure reporting responses from real labor supply responses by examining births of workers’ first children around an end-of-year cutoff for credit eligibility that creates exogenous variation in tax rates at the end of the tax year after labor supply decisions are already sunk. We find that exposing workers with sunk labor supply to negative marginal tax rates results in large increases in their propensity to self-report self-employment—only a small minority of which leads to bunching at kink-points. Consistent with pure strategic reporting behavior, we find no impact on reporting among taxpayers with no incentive to report additional income and no effects on firm-reported payments of any kind. Moreover, we find these reporting responses have grown over time as knowledge of tax incentives has become widespread. Quantification exercises suggest that changes in taxpayer reporting behavior are a major driver of discrepancies between self-employment trends in self-reported and third-party reported data. Our findings suggest caution is warranted before deferring to self-reported tax data over other data sources when measuring labor market trends.

JEL Classification: H26,J21,J41,J46,J82

Suggested Citation:

Garin, Andrew and Jackson, Emilie and Koustas, Dmitri, New Gig Work or Changes in Reporting? Understanding Self-Employment Trends in Tax Data (April 30, 2024). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2024-53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4812242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4812242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K Abraham , J Haltiwanger , K Sandusky , J Spletzer
Exploring Differences in Employment between Household and Establishment Data
S129-S172 , volume 31 Posted: 2013
K G Abraham , J C Haltiwanger , C Hou , K Sandusky , J R Spletzer
Reconciling Survey and Administrative Measures of Self-Employment
Journal of Labor Economics
K G Abraham , B J Hershbein , S N Houseman
Most Self-Employed Workers Are Independent Contractors
Policy Brief Posted: 2020
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Load more
1 Citations
John Iselin
The Labor Supply Effects of the California Earned Income Tax Credit *
115 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies