Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Size and Effective Tax Rates. Evidence from the U.S. Banks

28 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Sebastian Lazar

University Alexandru Ioan Cuza of Iasi, Romania

Nicu Sprincean

Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iași; National Institute for Economic Research, Romanian Academy

Iulian Ihnatov

Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi

Alin Marius Andries

Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi; Romanian Academy - Institute for Economic Forecasting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of bank size and the corresponding tax deductibility rules of loan loss provisions (reserve method vs. charge-off method) on bank-specific effective tax rates (ETRs) for U.S. commercial and savings banks over 2011-2020 period. By exploiting the single-country scenario of the U.S. that sets different tax deductibility rules for banks’ loan loss provisions according to the size of the banks (small vs. large banks with $500 million assets threshold as a cut-off) within the same regulatory framework, we document that while size is positively associated with bank-specific ETR, large banks that are required to deduct loss provisions under the charge-off method enjoy a lower tax reduction effect compared to small banks that can deduct losses under the reserve method. The findings remain consistent both for small and large banks, across a battery of robustness checks, including alternative definitions of ETR and different estimators, both static and dynamic, in which we account for endogeneity concerns. Results bear critical policy implications for both policymakers and bank executives.

Keywords: bank size, effective tax rates, loan loss provisions, net charge-offs

JEL Classification: G21, G28, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lazar, Sebastian and Sprincean, Nicu and Ihnatov, Iulian and Andries, Alin Marius, Bank Size and Effective Tax Rates. Evidence from the U.S. Banks (May 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4816213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4816213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
W E Alexander
Systemic bank restructuring and macroeconomic policy Posted: 1997
K Andries , J Gallemore , M Jacob
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
E Balla , M J Rose
Loan loss provisions, accounting constraints, and bank ownership structure
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 78 , p. 92 - 117 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
560,422
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies