Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the Gray Zone: Accountants' Perceptions of Tax Morality Among Brazilian Micro-Entrepreneurs Facing Simples Nacional Exclusion

32 Pages Posted: 10 May 2024

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Tanisia Marinho Rodrigues

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: May 4, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the tax morality of Brazilian micro and small entrepreneurs at risk of exclusion from the Simples Nacional tax regime, drawing on insights from accountants. Through analysis of accountants' reactions to simulated scenarios of income underreporting, expense manipulation, and misuse of tax credits, it illuminates the ethical challenges and behavioral trends within this vital economic group. Engaging 404 accountants, the findings offer significant insights into tax ethics and business practices. The study highlights the impact of gender, political orientation, and professional knowledge on perceptions of clients' tax compliance. Results indicate notable gender differences; furthermore, accountants' political views significantly influence their perceptions of tax fraud, underscoring the need for tax policies that are perceived as fair across the political spectrum. The study also reveals a correlation between accountants' understanding of Simples Nacional and their judgments on compliance, emphasizing the importance of enhancing professional education to improve the accuracy of compliance assessments. These insights are invaluable for policymakers and legislative bodies, suggesting enhancements to tax morale that could improve public sector efficacy. The study advocates for reforms in the Brazilian tax system that recognize the intricacies of corporate tax ethics, aiming to promote equitable and just tax participation among micro-entrepreneurs.

Keywords: Tax compliance, Tax morale, Tax evasion, Simples Nacional, Brazil

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Rodrigues, Tanisia, Navigating the Gray Zone: Accountants' Perceptions of Tax Morality Among Brazilian Micro-Entrepreneurs Facing Simples Nacional Exclusion (May 4, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4817476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4817476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Alm , J Martinez-Vazquez
Societal institutions and tax evasion in developing and transitional countries
Conference paper in honor of Richard Bird: Public finance in developing and transition countries , p. 4 - 6 Posted: 2001-04
M Biazus , T Orlandi
Tax planning as a way to avoid the incidence of the sole paragraph of article 116 of the CTN in private relations carried out by companies
JusBrasil Posted: 2016
A C Bueno , C Silva , D A Silva , J De Almeida , L M Nogueira , P Sá
Sonegação fiscal: Um estudo sobre a pratica de sonegar nas organizações brasileiras
Article s0058 Posted: 2017
L J Cronbach
Coefficient alpha and the internal structure of tests
Psychometrika , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 334 Posted: 1951
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies