Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Limited) Competitive Advantage of Tax Planning

60 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Ernest (Gang) Pan

Washington University in Saint Louis, John M. Olin Business School

Date Written: May 5, 2024

Abstract

This paper documents that corporate tax planning innovations, proxied by decreases in effective tax rates, contribute to excess shareholder returns and, thereby, a competitive advantage. Compared to other improvements in firm performance, tax planning innovations have smaller factor loadings and explain fewer variations in excess returns. Notably, sales growth explains more than seven times the variations in excess returns compared to tax planning innovations. Tax planning even falls behind interest expense reductions, given the challenge of altering firm capital structure. To address the concern that changes in firm performance drive the association between tax planning innovations and excess returns, I explore the market reactions to the legislation events of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). Consistent with a lower statutory rate reducing the benefit of tax planning, firms with stronger tax planning competitive advantage before TCJA experienced more negative market reactions. Overall, my study provides strong evidence of the competitive advantages of tax planning, albeit the magnitude is limited.

Keywords: Corporate tax planning, Competitive advantage, Rate of return, Valuation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

JEL Classification: D83,G10,G14,G18,G32,H22,H25,H26,H32,H71,K34,M21,M41

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Ernest, The (Limited) Competitive Advantage of Tax Planning (May 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4817541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4817541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A Alstadsaeter , S Godar , P Nicolaides , G Zucman
Global tax evasion report Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
A J Auerbach , J Slemrod
The economic effects of the tax reform act of 1986
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 589 - 632 Posted: 1997
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
RANK
340,955
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies