Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pivotal Role of Capital Gains in Efficient and Progressive Tax Reform

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 1, 2024, p. 1-32

32 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Jonathan Rhys Kesselman

Simon Fraser University School of Public Policy

Date Written: May 7, 2024

Abstract

Increased, targeted taxation of capital gains is key to making the personal income tax more progressive, and it can also contribute to a more efficient system. This article assesses a two-tier capital gains tax that would apply a second, higher inclusion rate for gains above a specified threshold. Relative to a general increase in the inclusion rate—widely promoted by tax analysts—a two-tier scheme would focus on high-income, high-wealth taxpayers, forgo limited revenue, and be more publicly acceptable and politically viable. Relative to reforms to the alternative minimum tax (AMT), the two-tier scheme would be simpler, cover more taxpayers, capture more revenue, and conform more closely to the notion that “the rich pay their fair share.” The article explains how capital gains are an amalgam of capital and labour inputs, often containing supernormal returns that are an efficient target for increased taxation. The article further details the high concentration of recurrent large capital gains at top income levels and critically assesses arguments commonly made against raising the gains inclusion rate. It also identifies desirable companion measures for a two-tier gains tax—including restoration of income averaging and abolition of the federal 33 percent top tax bracket and the AMT itself. In short, the current 50 percent capital gains deduction serves as a gateway for endless tax-minimizing and economy-distorting stratagems. Closing that gate even partway for those most prone to enter into such planning would be pivotal in making Canada’s tax system both more efficient and more progressive.

Keywords: Capital Gains, Tax Reform, Alternative Minimum Tax, Tax Avoidance, Deferral Method, Canada-US

Suggested Citation:

Kesselman, Jonathan Rhys, The Pivotal Role of Capital Gains in Efficient and Progressive Tax Reform (May 7, 2024). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 1, 2024, p. 1-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4819659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Bruce Boadway , Peter S Spiro
Can a Dividend Tax Credit Be Justified in a Small Open Economy? Posted: 2013
Peter S Spiro
Kesselman and Spiro, supra note 53; Robin Boadway and Jean-François Tremblay, Modernizing Business Taxation, C.D. Howe Commentary no. 546 (Toronto: C.D. Howe Institute, 2016); and Boadway, supra note 24
Tax Exemptions for Investment Income: Boon or Bane? Mowat Research no Posted: 2017
Canada
remarks by the deputy prime minister and minister of finance Posted: 2023-03-28
Murphy
(supra note 63, at 671) attributed all of the federal tax expenditure of $725 million for the employee stock option deduction in 2011 to the top 1 percent of earners
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
385,002
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies