Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: Using Retributive Justice to Ensure Public Trust in Canada's Tax System

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 1, 2024. p. 83-93

12 Pages Posted: 15 May 2024

Jonathan Farrar

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: May 7, 2024

Abstract

To ensure public trust in the tax system, retributive justice must be present. That is, tax offenders must be held accountable for their unethical behaviour and punished in accordance with tax laws. In this article, the authors first summarize recent academic research about the deterrent effect of knowledge of others’ tax-crime punishments.

They classify this research into two categories: archival “naming-and-shaming” research and experimental tax ethics research. Next, they report the results of a survey of adult Canadian taxpayers in which they assess the perceived severity of tax-crime punishments. They compare these survey results with aggregate tax-crime punishment data in Canada and show that there is an expectations gap between what Canadians believe constitutes appropriate punishment for tax crimes and actual punishments. Finally, the authors discuss enforcement and other challenges for tax authorities in bringing about retributive justice, and consider other ways in which tax authorities might make tax offenders accountable for their crimes. Their ultimate suggestion is that the Canada Revenue Agency needs to increase its perceived power by increasing the frequency of actual prosecutions for tax evasion. Recent proposals for reform of the general anti-avoidance rule may lead to more prosecutions.

Keywords: Justice, Ethics, Tax, Penalties, Enforcement, Canada Revenue Agency

Suggested Citation:

Farrar, Jonathan and King, Tisha, Policy Forum: Using Retributive Justice to Ensure Public Trust in Canada's Tax System (May 7, 2024). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 1, 2024. p. 83-93, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4819747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
See Ey Canada , James Alm , Joyce Beebe , Michael S Kirsch , Y Omri , Jay A Marian , Soled
New Technologies and the Evolution of Tax Compliance , volume 39 , p. 287 - 356 Posted: 2019-07-03
Joyce Beebe
AI and Taxes-A Work in Progress: Part 2 Posted: 2023-08-24
Brian J Arnold
Specific anti-avoidance rules could potentially be legislated as well
The General Anti-Avoidance Rule: Past, Present, and Future , p. 295 - 326 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
367
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies