Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Performance and Cash Effective Tax Rates: Evidence from UK Listed Firms

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (forthcoming)

47 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2024

Nouf Binhadab

Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University

Date Written: May 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between cash effective tax rates (ETRs) and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance using a firm-level analysis of the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 (FTSE 100) and FTSE 250 firms. The findings show a positive correlation between ESG performance and cash ETRs. The findings are robust to an instrumental variable approach that controls for the potential endogeneity between ESG performance and cash ETRs. For non-financial firms, this positive correlation between ESG performance and cash ETRs is particularly driven by the environmental aspect of ESG performance, whereas it is driven by the social and governance aspects of ESG performance for financial firms. An additional analysis indicates that the corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy dimension, which measures a firm’s integration of CSR aspects into its daily decision-making, has a positive impact on cash ETRs. The findings seem to suggest that corporate culture can influence tax strategies.

Keywords: ESG performance, corporate social responsibility, taxation

Suggested Citation:

Binhadab, Nouf, ESG Performance and Cash Effective Tax Rates: Evidence from UK Listed Firms (May 2024). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4824329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2020
E Avetisyan , M Ferrary
Dynamics of stakeholders' implications in the institutionalization of the CSR field in France and in the United States
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 133 Posted: 2013
J Bebbington , C Larrinaga , J Moneva
Corporate social reporting and reputation risk management
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 337 - 361 Posted: 2008
R Bird , K Davis-Nozemack
Tax avoidance as a sustainability problem
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , issue 4 , p. 1009 - 1025 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
317,158
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies