Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Invisibility of the American Emigrant

17 DePaul J. for Soc. Just. (2024)

73 Pages Posted: 28 May 2024

Laura Snyder

Association of Americans Resident Overseas (AARO); Stop Extraterritorial American Taxation (SEAT)

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

Epistemic injustice is the dismissal of people as credible sources of information, because of our presumptions about them, or because what they have to say clashes with how we would like to believe the world works. Epistemic injustice occurs when members of an in-group discredit information received from members of an out-group, despite any expertise the members of the out-group may have. The in-group fails to recognize the contributions to knowledge made by a member of the out-group, as well as the person’s status as a “knower.” In doing so, members of the in-group consistently fail to track certain truths and to investigate claims about the out-group. Further, in-group power figures emphasize stories of crime to make them seem more frequent and heinous. Members of the in-group take an assumption of evil or wrongdoing about a specific person and apply it inferentially to the entire out-group.

In the absence of epistemic justice, one group can be dominated by another. This is why epistemic justice is an essential condition for an equitable and inclusive society, and for the “political ideal of freedom.”

Over the course of decades, American nationals living outside the United States (the out-group) have sought to communicate their knowledge of and experiences with the U.S. nationality-based tax system. They have produced a large body of knowledge which teaches that, because of the U.S. nationality-based tax system, persons of American nationality living outside the United States suffer multiple violations of multiple constitutional and human rights.

Unfortunately, academics, industry leaders, and governmental representatives (the in-group) for the most part either belittle this knowledge or, more commonly, do not recognize its existence, let alone contend with its contents or investigate its claims. This is observed in law school course materials, in academic literature, in conferences and think tanks, in the U.S. Congress, and in the IRS.

Until the contributions to knowledge and the experiences of American nationals living outside the United States are more widely recognized , their truths are tracked, and their claims are investigated without pre-conceived judgements and in good faith, there can be no justice, nor any “political ideal of freedom.” Today, because of the U.S. nationality-based tax system, no American is truly free to live outside the United States.

Keywords: Epistemic injustice, Epistemic violence, Citizenship-based taxation, Political domination, Freedom, Discrimination, U.S. Congress, IRS, Mandatory Repatriation Tax, Moore v. United States

JEL Classification: H24, H26, I21, I24, K30, K34, K40, Z13, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Snyder, Laura, The Invisibility of the American Emigrant (May 16, 2024). 17 DePaul J. for Soc. Just. (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
263 References
E G See , Taylor Rogers
Resisting Epistemic Oppression, 14 HUMANA MENTE
EPISTEMOLOGY , volume 175 Posted: 2014
E G See , Dotson
Miranda Fricker
s Epistemic Ethics, supra note 6
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
772
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
74,554
263 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies