Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extreme Climate and Corporate Tax Avoidance Behavior: Evidence from China

55 Pages Posted: 18 May 2024

Shuainan Zhang

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Shanyong Wang

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Yancheng Lai

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Haidong Li

University of Science and Technology of China (USTC)

Abstract

Extreme climate not only causes direct economic losses, but also affects business decisions of enterprises. Based on the panel data of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2007 to 2021, this paper investigates the impact of extreme climate on corporate tax avoidance behavior and its underlying mechanisms. The findings show that the occurrence of extreme climate significantly increases corporate tax avoidance behavior, and this result still holds after a series of robustness tests. Mechanism tests indicate that extreme climate primarily amplifies corporate tax avoidance behavior by intensifying financial shocks and diminishing information transparency. Heterogeneity analysis results demonstrate that, concerning firm characteristics, the effect of extreme climate on corporate tax avoidance behavior is more pronounced in non-state-owned firms, growth and maturity firms, and firms with high financing constraints and low audit quality. From the perspective of regional development, the relationship between extreme climate and corporate tax avoidance behavior is more pronounced in regions with lower government fiscal pressure, less industry competition, and poorer tax and business environments. Additionally, it is observed that the external monitoring roles of institutional investors and government tax enforcement, and the driving role of financial development can effectively mitigate the impact of extreme climate on corporate tax avoidance behavior. This study provides empirical evidence that extreme climate risks permeate the capital market and influence corporate tax strategies, offering new micro perspectives and policy recommendations to enhance corporate decision-making.

Keywords: Extreme climate, Tax avoidance behavior, Financial shock, Information transparency, External monitoring

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Shuainan and Wang, Shanyong and Lai, Yancheng and Li, Haidong, Extreme Climate and Corporate Tax Avoidance Behavior: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4832640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
S Acevedo , M Mrkaic , N Novta , E Pugacheva , P Topalova
The effects of weather shocks on economic activity: what are the channels of impact?
Journal of Macroeconomics , volume 65 Posted: 2020
J Alm , Y Liu , K Zhang
Financial constraints and firm tax evasion
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 26 , p. 71 - 102 Posted: 2019
F Ascui , T F Cojoianu
Implementing natural capital credit risk assessment in agricultural lending
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 28 , p. 1234 - 1249 Posted: 2019
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
584
RANK
677,757
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies