Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funding needs and tax underpayments

55 Pages Posted: 18 May 2024

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Taylor James

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: September 13, 2024

Abstract

Recent research finds that firms respond to financial constraints by reducing cash tax payments through tax planning. We build on this financing-based explanation for corporate tax decisions by examining i) whether firms reduce tax payments in response to immediate cash needs (a necessary but not sufficient condition for financial constraints) and ii) whether these reductions are conditional on firms’ access to or use of external financing. The average profitable firm in our sample is significantly more likely to proactively underpay taxes in years it faces a cash shortfall. Firms with the capacity to access external funds are no less likely to underpay taxes in response to a cash shortfall. This suggests that firms’ use of tax payments to satisfy cash needs expands beyond the specific case of facing financial constraints. While the sensitivity of tax underpayments to cash shortfalls is statistically significant, it is also small compared to debt, equity, and trade credit responses. Our results suggest that firms’ immediate cash needs are an important driver of firms’ decision to underpay taxes.

Keywords: taxes, underpayment, financing, financial constraint, cash needs, shortfall

JEL Classification: G32, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heitzman, Shane and James, Taylor, Funding needs and tax underpayments (September 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4832324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4832324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Alm , Y Liu , K Zhang
Financial constraints and firm tax evasion
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 26 , p. 71 - 102 Posted: 2019
J Andreoni
IRS as loan shark: Tax compliance with borrowing constraints
Journal of Public Economics , volume 49 , p. 35 - 46 Posted: 1992
T Beck , C Lin , Y Ma
Why do firms evade taxes? The role of information sharing and financial sector outreach
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 763 - 817 Posted: 2014
J H Van Binsbergen , J R Graham , J Yang
The cost of debt
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 2089 - 2136 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
RANK
610,038
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies