Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Tax Executives Craft Income Tax Disclosures in Response to Tax-Based Proprietary Costs

63 Pages Posted: 20 May 2024

Stefan Richter

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting; The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Roshan K. Sinha

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Bridget Stomberg

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: April 2024

Abstract

We use semi-structured interviews with public company tax executives and archival data to provide new evidence on how tax executives shape the tax footnote in response to their belief that federal, foreign, and state tax authorities use public disclosures in their enforcement efforts. Interviewees express a desire for vague disclosures that nonetheless comply with applicable disclosure mandates. Using a validated measure of “vagueness,” we provide corroborating large-sample evidence that the vagueness of tax footnotes is increasing in tax-based proprietary costs. Additionally, some interviewees convey their belief that vague tax footnotes do not harm investors. We test this conjecture by examining the association between the vagueness of tax footnotes and analyst tax forecast errors. We find only modest evidence that analyst forecast errors are increasing in the vagueness of the tax footnote. However, there are frictions to issuing vague disclosures as we find a positive relation between the vagueness of the tax footnote and the likelihood of receiving an SEC tax comment letter. Our study extends the literature by documenting one way that managers alter tax disclosures in response to tax-based proprietary costs and how this behavior affects stakeholders.

Keywords: tax authorities, tax disclosures, proprietary costs, analyst forecasts

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Richter, Stefan and Seidman, Jeri K. and Sinha, Roshan and Stomberg, Bridget, How Tax Executives Craft Income Tax Disclosures in Response to Tax-Based Proprietary Costs (April 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4834552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4834552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Anesa , N Gillespie , A P Spee , K Sadiq
The legitimation of corporate tax minimization
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 75 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2019
H S Asay , R Libby , K Rennekamp
Firm performance, reporting goals, and language choices in narrative disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 2-3 , p. 380 - 398 Posted: 2018
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
N M Bedford , V Baladouni
A communication theory approach to accountancy
The Accounting Review , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 650 - 659 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
439,313
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies