Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Over-Withholding and Household Investment Decisions

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 22 May 2024

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Jungbae Kim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: May 21, 2024

Abstract

Over three-quarters of U.S. taxpayers over-withhold taxes, leading to tax refunds. This study explores how over-withholding impacts stock investments by comparing individuals' investment patterns from wages and tax refunds. We find that while some portion of tax refunds are promptly invested, the investment rate is lower than that of wages. This suggests that over-withholding, which alters the label and timing of wages into refunds, influences investment behavior. Our cross-sectional analysis indicates that the differential propensity to invest wages versus tax refunds are more pronounced for individuals with automatic investment setups and lower financial sophistication. These findings underscore the importance of considering behavioral factors in the formulation of tax policies and contribute to the accounting literature that examines taxes and investment behavior.

Keywords: Tax Refunds, Income Tax Policy, Stock Market Participation, Household Financial Planning, Tax Over-Withholding

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Novia (Xi) and Kim, Jungbae and Lourie, Ben and Zhu, Chenqi, Income Tax Over-Withholding and Household Investment Decisions (May 21, 2024). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4837293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4837293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
S Andersen , K Nielsen
Participation constraints in the stock market: Evidence from unexpected inheritance due to sudden death
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 1667 - 1697 Posted: 2011
H Arkes , C Joyner , M Pezzo , J Nash , K Siegel-Jacobs , E Stone
The psychology of windfall gains
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 331 - 347 Posted: 1994
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
RANK
475,660
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies