Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do fairness perceptions influence moral licensing behavior? Evidence from tax compliance

58 Pages Posted: 23 May 2024 Last revised: 26 Oct 2024

Donna Bobek

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Amy M. Hageman

Kansas State University

Cass Hausserman

Portland State University

Date Written: July 22, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates how the presence, and subsequent repeal, of a tax incentive for a prosocial behavior influences fairness perceptions and tax compliance for those who are and are not eligible for the incentive. Results of a multi-round experiment with 309 U.S. taxpayers show that individuals who engage in the prosocial behavior of making a charitable donation do not exhibit moral licensing behavior. Instead, those who give, versus do not give, engage in higher levels of tax compliance. In fact, we even observe consistency for those with the most motivation to morally license - those who donate to charity but also perceive the tax system as unfair. In addition, tax system fairness perceptions only influence the compliance decisions of individuals who do not engage in the prosocial incentivized behavior. Finally, we also show that a tax incentive for charitable giving is effective. Those who are eligible for a charitable-giving related tax incentive are more likely to give to charity than individuals who are ineligible for such an incentive; additionally, these incentivized activities decrease by one-third when the incentive is repealed. The study results add to the literature on moral licensing, charitable giving, and tax fairness and have several policy implications. We confirm that tax incentives are, on the margin, effective at encouraging prosocial behavior and that perceiving the tax system as unfair can reduce the tax compliance for some individuals. In particular, our results suggest that focusing scarce audit resources on non-donators may be an efficient way to detect non-compliance.

Keywords: tax incentives, tax compliance, fairness, moral licensing, charitable giving.

JEL Classification: H24, H25, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bobek, Donna and Hageman, Amy M. and Hausserman, Cass, Do fairness perceptions influence moral licensing behavior? Evidence from tax compliance (July 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4839171 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4839171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Do ethics matter? Tax compliance and morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
J Andreoni , S C Kolm , J M Ytheir , Amsterdam
Philanthropy
Handbook of Economics of Giving, Altruism, and Reciprocity , volume 2 , p. 1201 - 1269 Posted: 2006
J Andreoni , B Erard , J Feinstein
Tax compliance , volume 36 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
C Austin , D Bobek , J Jackson
Does prospect theory explain ethical decision making? Evidence from a tax compliance setting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 94 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
607
RANK
741,983
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies