Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Private Country-by-Country Reporting Really Not Affect Tax-Motivated International Income Shifting?

54 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Jillian R. Adams

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business

Date Written: May 24, 2024

Abstract

Extant research has failed to find robust evidence that mandatory private country-by-country reporting (CbCR) disclosure to the tax authorities has significantly decreased multinational corporations’ (MNCs’) tax-motivated international income shifting. These results have been widely cited and interpreted as evidence that MNCs’ income shifting has not decreased after the implementation of private CbCR. I revisit this question by replicating the results of prior research, lengthening the sample period, and expanding the sample beyond the EU. Using affiliate-level income shifting models, I find robust evidence that MNCs shift significantly less income in the post-CbCR implementation period. On average, MNCs have decreased their income shifting by half since the implementation of CbCR, and these decreases are monotonic across MNC size and not concentrated amongst MNCs subject to mandatory private CbCR. Altogether, I show that CbCR generally achieved its overall objective of reducing income shifting; however, I provide compelling evidence that the CbCR consolidated revenue threshold did not matter, making it unlikely that it was the CbCR disclosure to the tax authorities that resulted in the decrease in income shifting. Consistent with the overarching focus of the OECD’s BEPS framework, I find that MNCs headquartered in countries with strong regulatory environments, an interest deduction limitation consistent with BEPS Action 4, and no preferential tax regimes named in BEPS Action 5, exhibit greater decreases in income shifting relative to MNCs headquartered in countries with weak regulatory environments and not compliant with Action 4 or Action 5.

Keywords: country-by-country reporting, private disclosure, mandatory disclosure, disclosure regulation, income shifting

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, H32, K22

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Jillian R., Did Private Country-by-Country Reporting Really Not Affect Tax-Motivated International Income Shifting? (May 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2021
T Bergin
Special report: How Starbucks avoids UK taxes
Reuters Posted: 2012-10-15
D Cengiz , A Dube , A Lindner , B Zipperer
The effect of minimum wages on lowwage jobs
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 134 , issue 3 , p. 1405 - 1454 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
390,908
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies