Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Swimming Against the Current? Taxation of the Digitalized Economy in Latin America

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 514-525; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vrfw23

Posted: 5 Jun 2024

Andrea Riccardi Sacchi

University of Valencia

Andrés González

Independent

Diana Calderón Manrique

Independent

Felipe Guevara Leandro

Independent

Francisco Sepúlveda

Independent

Gabriela Rodríguez Arguijo

Independent

Guillermo O. Teijeiro

Independent

Juan Manuel Vázquez

Independent

Luciana Yanez

Independent

Vanessa Arruda Ferreira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Date Written: September 10, 2019

Abstract

In this article, the authors examine the various measures that eight Latin American countries have (and have not) implemented to tax profits derived from the digitalized economy in the region.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy, direct tax, indirect tax, local tax, BEPS Project (OECD), nexus

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Sacchi, Andrea Riccardi and González, Andrés and Calderón Manrique, Diana and Guevara Leandro, Felipe and Sepúlveda, Francisco and Rodríguez Arguijo, Gabriela and Teijeiro, Guillermo O. and Vázquez, Juan Manuel and Yanez, Luciana and Arruda Ferreira, Vanessa, Swimming Against the Current? Taxation of the Digitalized Economy in Latin America (September 10, 2019). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 73 (2019), no. 10 ; p. 514-525; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vrfw23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4845465
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies