Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Tax Clientele on Disclosure: Evidence from the Municipal Bond Market

55 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Novia (Xi) Chen

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 28, 2024

Abstract

The municipal bond market has been widely criticized for its lack of disclosure, which prior research has attributed to weak regulatory oversight. Given that most municipal bonds are tax-exempt, we propose the tax clientele effect as another explanation for opaque disclosures. The primary tax clientele for tax-exempt bonds (i.e., high-tax retail investors) may lack the incentive or ability to demand and monitor disclosures, whereas taxable bonds attract a broader set of investors, including institutional investors, who can demand disclosure. Consistent with the tax clientele effect, our analyses suggest that issuers provide more continuing disclosures in years with taxable bonds outstanding relative to years without. We also observe that issuers increase disclosures after issuing their first taxable bond and decrease disclosures after calling their last taxable bond. Exploiting a tax law change, we find that disclosures increase following a plausibly exogenous increase in taxable bond issuances. Collectively, our results are consistent with a tax clientele effect on disclosures. Our analyses can inform regulators of the municipal bond market and tax policymakers examining the costs and benefits of the tax-exempt status afforded to municipal bonds.

Keywords: municipal bonds, tax clientele, continuing disclosure

JEL Classification: H20, H74, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Novia (Xi) and Hutchens, Michelle and Xia, Junwei, The Effects of Tax Clientele on Disclosure: Evidence from the Municipal Bond Market (May 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4846382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4846382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional investor attention and firm disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2020
A Ang , V Bhansali , Y Xing
Taxes on tax-exempt bonds
Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 565 - 601 Posted: 2010
A Ang , R C Green , F A Longstaff , Y Xing
Advance refundings of municipal bonds
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , p. 1645 - 1682 Posted: 2017
W Baber , A Beck , A Koester
Accounting standardization and separation in the municipal debt market: Evidence from GASB 34
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
697,815
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies