Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Does the Volatility of Tax Reserves Signal about Firms' Tax Positions?

51 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2024

Jane Z. Song

University of Missouri - Trulaske College of Business

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Phil Kunz

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 24, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether a previously unexplored facet of firms' unrecognized tax benefits (UTBs)-their volatility-provides a relevant signal to external stakeholders about the uncertainty of a firm's tax positions and strategies. We posit that the volatility of UTB additions (UTB volatility) is indicative of ex ante tax uncertainty because it reflects different, expanded, and/or unfamiliar tax positions. As such, unlike the level of UTBs or ETR volatility, UTB volatility can provide an ex ante signal of changes in tax-related risk. Consistent with expectations, we find that UTB volatility is associated with increased tax authority audit and compliance risk, credit risk, and overall current and future firm risk. Specifically, we find that UTB volatility is associated with greater IRS scrutiny and future tax settlements, lower credit ratings, and lower firm value and greater future return volatility. Consistent with UTB volatility capturing different, expanded, and/or unfamiliar tax positions, we document that R&D expense volatility, operating volatility, and geographic expansion contribute to UTB volatility. We also find that UTB volatility is incrementally more informative about the risk-related firm outcomes that we examine than ETR volatility, the level of UTBs, and other underlying firm activities. Overall, our results suggest that UTB volatility serves as a unique signal of ex ante uncertainty about a firm's tax positions that is relevant for the risk assessment of various stakeholder groups.

Keywords: Unrecognized tax benefits, ASC 740, volatility, tax uncertainty, tax strategy, risk relevance, audit risk, compliance risk, credit risk JEL Codes: G10, M41, H26, ASC 740, volatility, tax uncertainty, tax strategy, risk relevance, audit risk, credit risk, compliance risk

Suggested Citation:

Song, Jane (Zhiyan) and Neuman, Stevanie S. and Kunz, Phil, What Does the Volatility of Tax Reserves Signal about Firms' Tax Positions? (May 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4850560 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4850560
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
B C Ayers , S K Laplante , S T Mcguire
Credit ratings and taxes: The effect of booktax differences on ratings changes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 359 - 402 Posted: 2010
I V Bonsall , S B Koharki , K Watson , L
Deciphering tax avoidance: Evidence from credit rating disagreements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 818 - 848 Posted: 2017
J L Blouin , L A Robinson
Insights from academic participation in the FAF's initial PIR: The PIR of FIN 48
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 500 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
RANK
631,616
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies