Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Hedge Fund Activists Use and Affect Financial Reporting of Income Taxes? Evidence from the Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets

50 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024 Last revised: 2 Jan 2025

Mary Cowx

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Jennifer L. Glenn

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Patrick Kielty

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 31, 2024

Abstract

This study uses valuation allowances (VAs) for deferred tax assets (DTAs) to examine whether hedge fund activists (HFAs) use and affect financial reporting of income taxes. Specifically, we investigate whether HFAs target firms with VAs and whether target firms are more likely to release VAs post-intervention. We find that the existence, magnitude, and increases in VAs increase the marginal probability that HFAs will target a firm by between 12% to 24%. We also find that target firms are 4.6% more likely to release VAs following the intervention and this effect persists for up to two years. Releases of VAs appear to stem from implemented tax avoidance strategies and changes in financial reporting of income taxes rather than real changes in operating performance or earnings management. Overall, HFAs appear to understand the interplay between tax planning and financial reporting of income taxes and use both to unlock value in target firms.

Keywords: Accounting for Income Taxes, ASC 740, Deferred Tax Assets, Hedge Fund Activists, Valuation Allowance JEL Codes: G23

Declaration of Interest

We gratefully acknowledge research support provided by the Fisher College of Business, the Mays Business School, and the W.P. Carey School of Business.

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

We gratefully acknowledge research support provided by the Fisher College of Business, the Mays Business School, and the W.P. Carey School of Business.

Suggested Citation:

Cowx, Mary and Glenn, Jennifer L. and Kielty, Patrick and McGuire, Sean T., How Do Hedge Fund Activists Use and Affect Financial Reporting of Income Taxes? Evidence from the Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets (December 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4853883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4853883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
P C Austin
Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
Z Axelton , J Gramlich , M Harris
How do auditors learn to forecast? Evidence from the predictive power of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance Posted: 2019
B C Ayers , A C Call , C M Schwab
Do analysts' cash flow forecasts encourage managers to improve the firm's cash flows? Evidence from tax planning
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 767 - 793 Posted: 2018
Load more
1 Citations
Dain C. Donelson , Jennifer L. Glenn , Sean T. McGuire , Christopher G. Yust
The effect of shareholder scrutiny on corporate tax behavior: Evidence from shareholder tax litigation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 163 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
538,270
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies