Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of In-person Communication on Resolving Tax Uncertainty with the IRS

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4855680

51 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024 Last revised: 2 Mar 2025

Matthew Cobabe

Virginia Tech

Jing Huang

Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University - Pamplin College of Business

Petro Lisowsky

Boston University - Questrom School of Business; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Kaishu Wu

University of Waterloo

Date Written: March 02, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the extent to which in-person communication affects firms' ability to resolve tax uncertainty with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Using public data, we construct a novel measure that approximates driving traffic between a firm's headquarters and its closest IRS office to capture in-person communication. By examining stay-at-home orders issued by states during the COVID-19 pandemic as staggered shocks to social interaction, we validate that our driving traffic measure plausibly captures in-person communication. We find firms with high in-person communication with the IRS before COVID are less effective at resolving tax uncertainty following COVID-related social restriction orders. These firms encounter less resolution of prior-period tax uncertainties, more unfavorable tax settlements, and extended tax audits. The effects are greater for firms having more IRS interaction before COVID, such as through the Coordinated Industry Case or Compliance Assurance Process programs. We offer timely policy implications as the IRS reassesses its remote work model amid the Trump Administration's mandate for in-person work.

Keywords: in-person, remote, tax uncertainty, tax audit JEL Classification: H11, H25, M41, M48

JEL Classification: H11, H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cobabe, Matthew Alan and Huang, Jing and Lisowsky, Petro and Wu, Kaishu, The Impact of In-person Communication on Resolving Tax Uncertainty with the IRS (March 02, 2025). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4855680, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4855680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4855680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
M Afzali , U Khan , S
Sharing the pain between workers and management: Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic and 9/11 attacks Posted: 2023
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risktaking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
J Austin , A Allen
Inside the IRS' new large corporate compliance program. Law 360 Posted: 2019
B Ayers , J Seidman , E Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
523
RANK
631,616
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies