Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Avoidance Increase Informational Asymmetry? Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

37 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2024

Rogiene Batista dos Santos

Fundação Getulio Vargas

Rafael F. Schiozer

Fundação Getulio Vargas/EAESP

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the impact of tax avoidance practices on investors' ability to incorporate existing information into stock prices, particularly in the context of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017.Design/methodology/approach: We use a Difference-in-Differences strategy to compare US multinationals with subsidiaries in tax havens (less sensitive to TCJA) to those with subsidiaries in other countries (more sensitive to TCJA).Findings: Our results show that, before the TCJA, synchronicity was higher for tax-haven multinationals, in line with these firms’ higher degree of tax avoidance.Research limitations/implications: The study focuses on US companies with foreign subsidiaries and may not generalize to other contexts. It also relies on the assumption that tax haven subsidiaries are more affected by TCJA.Practical implications: The results suggest that tax avoidance practices affect investors' ability to incorporate firm-specific information into stock prices, highlighting the importance of transparency and corporate governance in financial markets.Originality/value: This study contributes to the understanding of how tax policies such as TCJA impact tax avoidance practices and investors' information incorporation into stock prices, providing insights for policymakers, investors, and corporations.

Keywords: Synchronicity, Tax avoidance, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, Tax reform.

Suggested Citation:

Santos, Rogiene Batista dos and Schiozer, Rafael F., Does Tax Avoidance Increase Informational Asymmetry? Evidence from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4863117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4863117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
T Abdelfattah , A Aboud
Tax avoidance, corporate governance, and corporate social responsibility: The case of the Egyptian capital market
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 38 Posted: 2020
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
RANK
672,864
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies