Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Relationship Among Tax Cut, Decision-Maker's Confidence and Over-Financialization: Evidence from China

45 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2024

Haikuan Zhang

Guangzhou University

Xinyi Hong

Guangzhou University

Abstract

According to the dual features of the industrial policies, i.e., resource feature and signal feature, we discuss the impact of tax cut on entity over-financialization, as well as “bridges” effect of the enterprise decision-maker’s confidence on the relationship between tax cut and entity over-financialization. By analyzing the panel data of Shen-Shanghai A-share listed companies from 2007-2020, the results show that the tax cut significantly inhibits the entity over-financialization, and enterprise decision-maker’s confidence has a significant and partly mediation effect on the relationship between the tax cut and entity over-financialization. Furtherly, we deeply study internal effect mechanism of tax cut and decision-maker’s confidence on entity over-financialization, and find that tax cut could enhance business performance, reduce financing constraint, which could simulate enterprise decision-maker’s confidence. Thus, decision-maker’s confidence will promote enterprises to increase enterprise investment in physical assets, which will result in squeeze out enterprise investment in financial assets. Consequently, entity over-financialization could be effectively reversed. Finally, we also take the heterogeneity of property rights, dependence of innovation, and levels of marketization into account, and find that the mediation effects of enterprise decision-maker’s confidence on the relationship between tax cut and entity over-financialization, are only significant in enterprises group of the non-state-owned, high-tech, and aeras with high level of marketization. Tax cut are not obvious in the enterprises group of state-owned, non-high-tech and aeras with low level of marketization. Our studies could give the clues for the government to improve the industrial policies, and promote the enterprises to get rid of “fictitious economies” and return to physical investment.

Keywords: Tax Cut, Enterprise, Decision-maker's Confidence, Financialization

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Haikuan and Hong, Xinyi, Investigating the Relationship Among Tax Cut, Decision-Maker's Confidence and Over-Financialization: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4873486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4873486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
V A Aivazian , Y Ge , J Qiu
The impact of leverage on firm investment: Canadian evidence
Journal of corporate finance , volume 11 , issue 1-2 , p. 277 - 291 Posted: 2005
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
G M Angeletos , F Collard , H Dellas
Quantifying confidence
Econometrica , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1689 - 1726 Posted: 2018
J L Arcand , E Berkes , U Panizza
Too much finance
Journal of Economic Growth , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 148 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
219
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies