Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
There is No Carried Interest Loophole

26 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2024 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 28, 2025

Abstract

Carried interest is a special, or disproportionate-to-ownership, allocation of profits to the general partner of a private equity or hedge fund partnership. Some commentators deride carried interest as a “loophole” that allows high-income taxpayers to reduce their taxes by improperly obtaining preferential, instead of ordinary, tax rates. In this paper, I provide three analyses that suggest these common concerns are misplaced. First, and contrary to concerns of impropriety, I show that the current tax treatment of carried interest is consistent with the basic principles of the tax system, including principles of equity and fairness. Relatedly, the taxation of carried interest in partnerships is identical to similar arrangements in corporations. Second, and contrary to concerns of reduced tax payments, I demonstrate that the current taxation of carried interest often results in the U.S. government receiving more revenue than it would in absence of this special allocation. Third, I evaluate proposals to tax carried interest as ordinary income. Taxing carried interest as ordinary income may increase the tax rate on carried interest, but could also generate new deductions for the payment of carried interest that may partially or fully offset revenue raised by any tax rate increase, a fact often overlooked by commentators. In sum, the current taxation of carried interest is in line with the principles of the tax code and generates minimal, if any, revenue losses to the U.S. government and potentially increases revenue. Changes to the current tax treatment may induce economic distortions and reduce the fairness of the tax code. As such, commentators and politicians should refocus on more pressing and significant issues in the tax code.

Keywords: Venture Capital, Private Equity, Hedge Funds, Investor Taxes, Pass-Throughs, Partnerships, Carried Interest

JEL Classification: G23, G24, H24

Suggested Citation:

Utke, Steven, There is No Carried Interest Loophole (August 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4875315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4875315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
E J Allen , J C Allen , S Raghavan , D H Solomon
On the tax efficiency of startup firms
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 1887 - 1928 Posted: 2023
N Arnold , G Claveres , J Frie
Stepping up venture capital to finance innovation in Europe Posted: 2024
M N Borysoff , G W Brown
Loss avoidance in private equity Posted: 2024
M N Borysoff , P Mason , S Utke
Understanding private equity funds: A guide to private equity research in accounting
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 49 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
RANK
183,013
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies