Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt and Taxes: Revisited in Dynamics

65 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2024

Jingxiong (Tony) Hu

University of Warwick, Warwick Business School

Date Written: June 24, 2024

Abstract

This paper analyzes optimal leverage dynamics with personal and corporate taxes and financial distress costs. Key to the analysis, the marginal tax benefit of debt depends on whether the debt is used for financing real investment or financial restructuring. The theory features continuous leverage adjustments and no security issuance costs. There are two local leverage targets for firms with leverage above or below a threshold. The model generates a leverage distribution that matches the data, including many zero-leverage firms. Policymakers can reduce distress costs without losing tax revenue by raising the personal tax rate and lowering the corporate tax rate.

Keywords: Capital structure, Tax benefits of debt, Trade-off theory, Restructuring, Low-leverage puzzle, Tax efficiency

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Jingxiong, Debt and Taxes: Revisited in Dynamics (June 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4876226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4876226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Anat R Admati , M Peter , Martin F Demarzo , Paul Hellwig , Pfleiderer
The leverage ratchet effect
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
Hengjie Ai , Murray Z Frank , Ali Sanati
The trade-off theory of corporate capital structure Posted: 2020
Andrew Ang , Vineer Bhansali , Yuhang Xing
Taxes on tax-exempt bonds
The Journal of Finance , volume 65 , p. 565 - 601 Posted: 2010
Alan J Auerbach
Share valuation and corporate equity policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , p. 291 - 305 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
617
RANK
493,078
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies