Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Provision and Support for Inheritance Taxation: Evidence from a Representative Survey Experiment in Germany

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17099

45 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Luna Bellani

University of Ulm

Kattalina Berriochoa

University of Konstanz

Mark Kapteina

University of Konstanz

Guido Schwerdt

University of Konstanz - Faculty of Economics and Statistics

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

We study the effects of information on attitudes towards inheritance taxation using survey experiments fielded in Germany. We show that information about tax allowances increases demand for higher taxes and shifts public opinion from favoring abolition to supporting the tax. Effects are primarily due to a prevalent underestimation of tax allowances and the alteration of people's expectations of being affected by such taxes. In contrast, information highlighting the increasing proportion of inherited wealth only negligibly affects policy demand. Our results suggest that pocketbook motives and misinformation may contribute to explaining the paradox of limited demand for inheritance taxation despite growing inequality concerns.

Keywords: capital taxation, equality of opportunity, inheritance tax, information, randomized experiment

JEL Classification: H20, D72, D83

Suggested Citation:

Bellani, Luna and Berriochoa, Kattalina and Kapteina, Mark and Schwerdt, Guido, Information Provision and Support for Inheritance Taxation: Evidence from a Representative Survey Experiment in Germany. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17099, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4883858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Adermon , M Lindahl , D Waldenström
Intergenerational wealth mobility and the role of inheritance: Evidence from multiple generations
The Economic Journal , volume 128 , issue 612 , p. 482 - F513 Posted: 2018
T Albers , C Bartels , M Schularick
Wealth and its distribution in Germany, 1895-2018 Posted: 2022
A Alesina , P Giuliano , J Benhabib , A Bisin , M O Jackson
Preferences for redistribution
Handbook of Social Economics , volume 1 , p. 93 - 131 Posted: 2011
A Alesina , E , La Ferrara
Preferences for redistribution in the land of opportunities
Journal of Public Economics , volume 89 , issue 5-6 , p. 897 - 931 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies