Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Reform and the Biden-Harris Tax Pledge

6 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2024

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: July 04, 2022

Abstract

In late 2021, the House passed landmark tax reform legislation in the Build Back Better Act. Treasury later released the green book, which layers in additional tax reform proposals from the Biden administration.

The domestic tax reform proposals are generally consistent with President Biden’s and Vice President Kamala Harris’s pledge to not raise taxes on individuals or families who make $400,000 or less per year. However, the drafters of the international tax reform proposals may have unintentionally overlooked whether their reforms would increase the net U.S. federal income tax liability of any individual or family with taxable income of up to $400,000 per year, such as those who are individual U.S. shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation or people claiming foreign tax credits.

The international tax reforms can affect almost nine million Americans living abroad. Also, millions of others have foreign income and FTC from foreign businesses owned directly or through family partnerships, publicly traded partnerships, or private funds. An  accredited investor in a private fund is required to have only $200,000 of annual income, which can be even lower in some cases. The international tax reform proposals that violate the Biden tax pledge should be fixed.

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, International Tax Reform and the Biden-Harris Tax Pledge (July 04, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4885590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
653,956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies