Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comprehensive, and a Joint, Marijuana Tax

44 Va. Tax Rev. 303 (2025)

51 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: July 04, 2024

Abstract

The long-standing debate over marijuana legalization has reached a critical juncture, signaling a shift in public perception after years of deliberation. A significant number of states have now chosen to legalize marijuana, either for medicinal purposes, recreational use, or both, indicating a growing consensus on the issue. However, this article goes beyond the current state of affairs by exploring the historical roots of marijuana prohibition, exposing the lack of solid reasoning behind its initial ban.

Moreover, the article confronts the complex interplay between state-level legalization efforts and federal prohibition, shedding light on the resulting challenges in taxation and regulation. By proposing the implementation of a federal sales tax on marijuana, the article seeks to address this conundrum, taking inspiration from the approaches adopted by three other countries. Such a tax not only holds the potential to generate significant revenue for the government but also presents an opportunity to streamline the legal framework surrounding marijuana use and distribution. Through careful analysis and consideration of various perspectives, this article aims to contribute to the ongoing discourse on marijuana policy reform.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Policy, Tax Legislation, Cannabis, Marijuana, Federal Tax, State Tax, Pigouvian Taxes, Sin Taxes, Luxury Taxes, 280E

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Shanan, Tamir, A Comprehensive, and a Joint, Marijuana Tax (July 04, 2024). 44 Va. Tax Rev. 303 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4885144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4885144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Whitebread Bonnie
Boldt
, p. 265 - 266
This case declared that unregistered patients could not be described narcotics in order to prevent withdrawal under the Harrison Act , volume 29 Posted: 1919
Whitebread Bonnie
, p. 987 - 988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
531,414
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies