Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxpayer Moral Integrity in Tax Amnesty (Case Study on Luwuk)

13 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2024

Danny Wibowo

Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Ekonomi Indonesia (STIESIA) Surabaya. Indonesia

Abstract

Taxpayers are allowed to disclose their unreported assets through the Tax Amnesty Vol. I & II are designed to bolster taxpayer voluntary compliance and tax revenue. This study, conducted through qualitative research involving interviews with three individual taxpayers in Luwuk who participated in tax amnesty organised by the local tax office, aims to ascertain taxpayer compliance in paying the ransom as a redemption of income tax at a rate according to the policy for disclosing assets in the procedure due to the lack of taxpayer knowledge related to their tax obligations. The findings reveal that after the taxpayers engage in the program, they recognise their responsibility to report all assets not included in the latest income tax return. Therefore, it can be inferred that the policies implemented by the government have a positive impact on taxpayer awareness, paving the way for potential improvements in taxpayer morale towards the perception of their tax obligations. Taxpayers still feel the weight of their commitments, hence the need to truthfully report their assets and pay the ransom to avert future losses.

Keywords: Tax Amnesty, Tax Morale, Taxpayer Perception.

Suggested Citation:

Wibowo, Danny, Taxpayer Moral Integrity in Tax Amnesty (Case Study on Luwuk). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4886688 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4886688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C D Bailey , J M Plečnik
Honesty in Personal Tax Reporting: Ethical Prompts, Individual Factors, and Tax Reform
Journal of Forensic Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 352 - 386 Posted: 2020
M Bornman , P Ramutumbu
A conceptual framework of tax knowledge
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 823 - 839 Posted: 2019
R G Cummings , J Martinez-Vazquez , M Mckee , B Torgler
Effects of tax morale on tax compliance: experimental and survey evidence
Berkeley Program in Law & Economics Posted: 2006-10
Dataindonesia , Id
Rasio Kepatuhan Wajib Pajak PPh Capai 83,2 percent pada 2022
Dataindonesia.Id Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
155
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies