Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where to Locate Tax Employees? The Role of Tax Complexity and Tax Risk Implications

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 149

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-04

56 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2024

Henning Giese

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Reinald Koch

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 05, 2024

Abstract

This study analyzes the impact of tax complexity on the location of tax employees and tax risk. Using a hand-collected dataset of more than 7,500 tax employees from 348 European-listed multinationals, we identify two types of firm-level costs associated with tax complexity—tax employees, and tax risk. We find that firms locate more tax employees in countries with greater tax complexity. This association is particularly pronounced for complexity in tax procedures. We also find that multinationals operating in countries with high tax complexity are associated with higher tax risk. The incremental tax risk vanishes for firms that locate more tax employees in countries with highly complex tax procedures, while we find no risk reduction from additional tax employees in countries with complex tax rules. Our results reveal that multinationals eliminate 25 percent of overall tax complexity-related tax risk through targeted location of tax employees.

Keywords: tax complexity, tax complexity cost, tax department, tax employees, tax risk

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M12

Suggested Citation:

Giese, Henning and Koch, Reinald and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Where to Locate Tax Employees? The Role of Tax Complexity and Tax Risk Implications (July 05, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 149, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4888151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4888151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
262,460
1 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies