Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UN Tax Pillars to Address Capital Concentration (through Inheritance Levies) and Wealth Flight (through Exit Taxes)

International Tax Studies, volume 7, issue 9, 2024[10.59403/1edahnb]

26 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024 Last revised: 2 Sep 2025

Domenico Imparato

University of Hamburg - Institute of Law and Economics; University of California, Berkeley; University of Chicago

Date Written: March 14, 2024

Abstract

The article investigates the rising concentration of capital ownership, drawing evidence from the United States, Germany and other European states, and its impact on widening wealth inequality. It warns of modern economies morphing into an “inheritocracy”, where corporate equity and financial assets concentrate across generations. 

The analysis sheds light on the limitations of income tax systems in addressing wealth inequality in the context of high capital mobility. To tackle these challenges and building on the OECD’s experience with a global minimum tax for large corporations, the article advocates for a UN-led multilateral approach supporting Global Minimum Inheritance Taxes and a Global Minimum Exit Tax to prevent a race to the bottom in taxing high-net-worth individuals and deter wealth flight. By coordinating these taxes at a supranational level, the article supports a fairer tax burden distribution and emphasizes the revenue potential of inheritance levies.

Additionally, drawing from the U.S. Expatriation Tax, it explores the legal feasibility of the European Union harmonizing an EU-wide exit tax to mitigate capital flight. 

Ultimately, these measures have the potential to enhance progressivity across tax systems.

Keywords: Taxation, Capital Concentration, Corporate Ownership, Inequality, Inheritance Tax, Wealth Tax, Wealth Flight, Exit Tax, UN Tax Pillars, EU Tax Policy, US Expatriation Tax

Suggested Citation:

Imparato, Domenico, UN Tax Pillars to Address Capital Concentration (through Inheritance Levies) and Wealth Flight (through Exit Taxes) (March 14, 2024). International Tax Studies, volume 7, issue 9, 2024[10.59403/1edahnb], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1edahnb
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Martine Also , Fabrice Durand , Murtin
The Relationship between Income and Wealth Inequality: Evidence from the New OECD Wealth Distribution Database
Tax Policy Studies Posted: 2015
Gerald Auten
Income Inequality in the United States: Using Tax Data to Measure Long-Term Trends
Journal of Political Economy , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 121 Posted: 2021
Thomas Piketty , Emmanuel Saez
Income Inequality in the United States, 1913-1998
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2003
Alexander S Browman , Mesmin Destin , Melissa S Kearney , Phillip B Levine
How Economic Inequality Shapes Mobility Expectations and Behaviour in Disadvantaged Youth
Nature Human Behaviour , volume 3 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
815
RANK
649,413
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies