Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Enforcement and Firm Performance: Real and Reporting Responses to Risk-Based Tax Audits

55 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2024

Jarkko Harju

Tampere University

Kaisa Kotakorpi

Tampere University; Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research; Finnish Centre of Excellence in Tax Systems Research (FIT

Tuomas Matikka

VATT Institute for Economic Research

Annika Nivala

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research

Abstract

We analyze firm responses to risk-based tax audits using data on the full population of firms in Finland. We find an immediate and persistent increase in reported profits by the audited firms after audit, compared to matched non-audited firms with a similar development in key outcomes before the audit. This indicates non-compliance in the baseline. Both revenue and labor costs increase after audit, suggesting that some firms follow a strategy of under-reporting their overall scale of operation. Our most novel finding is that audits increase bankruptcies among non-compliant firms, which implies that tax enforcement has real effects on market outcomes.

Keywords: Tax compliance, tax evasion, tax enforcement, Firm behavior

Suggested Citation:

Harju, Jarkko and Kotakorpi, Kaisa and Matikka, Tuomas and Nivala, Annika, Tax Enforcement and Firm Performance: Real and Reporting Responses to Risk-Based Tax Audits. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4896491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4896491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the Radar: The Effects of Monitoring Firms on Tax Compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
S Beer , M Kasper , E Kirchler , B Erard
Do Audits Deter or Provoke Future Tax Noncompliance? Evidence on Self-Employed Taxpayers
CESifo Economic Studies , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 248 - 264 Posted: 2020
M L Bérgolo , R Ceni , G Cruces , M Giaccobasso , R Perez-Truglia
Tax Audits As Scarecrows: Evidence from a Large-Scale Field Experiment Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
416
RANK
864,731
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies