Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Consequences of Tax Avoidance: A Psychological Contract Perspective

31 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Puspita Ghaniy Anggraini

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Accounting

Mahfud Sholihin

Gadjah Mada University

Musa Mangena

University of Nottingham Business School

Singgih Wijayana

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Fu'ad Rakhman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and consequences of tax avoidance from the psychological contract perspective in tax relationship. Using a sample of 60 countries from 2009 to 2019, the results support the idea that taxpayers' willingness to pay taxes relies on how a government manages tax funds. Specifically, good government tax policies, namely better-quality regulations, less complicated bureaucracy, and more appropriate use of taxes, drive lower (higher) tax avoidance (compliance). Further, the results indicate that implementing public participation and transparency should be cautious since they can motivate taxpayers to avoid tax payments. In addition to good tax policies, lower tax avoidance is also observed in countries with a low tax burden, close government relations, and economically developed. Addressing tax avoidance by taking a closer look at the relationship between the government and taxpayers is essential considering that tax avoidance undermines national development across three dimensions: economic, social, environmental.

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax policy, national development, psychological contract

Suggested Citation:

Anggraini, Puspita Ghaniy and Sholihin, Mahfud and Mangena, Musa and Wijayana, Singgih and Rakhman, Fu'ad, The Determinants and Consequences of Tax Avoidance: A Psychological Contract Perspective. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 Posted: 1970
F Alasfour , M Samy , R Bampton
The Determinants of Tax Morale and Tax Compliance: Evidence from Jordan. Advances in Taxation , volume 23 , p. 125 - 171 Posted: 2016
J Alejo , A Galvao , G Montes-Rojas , W Sosa-Escudero
Tests for Normality in Linear Panel-data Models
The Stata Journal , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 822 - 832 Posted: 2015
A Al-Hadi , G Taylor , G Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the United States related?
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
470,088
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies