Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Culture Impact Tax Avoidance: A Machine Learning Approach

52 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2024

Babak Mammadov

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Hamid Vakilzadeh

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Abstract

This study investigates whether the corporate culture of a firm affects its tax avoidance. We use a novel machine learning methodology to measure the corporate culture of a firm. Our results show that firms with stronger corporate culture are more likely to have material operations in tax haven countries and the extent of such operations is greater in these firms. The findings also suggest that firms with stronger corporate cultures engage in greater tax avoidance. Our results are robust to the use of both instrumental variables and difference-in-differences identification strategies. Finally, we show that having tax haven operations as a result of stronger corporate culture increases a firm’s after-tax earnings in future periods.

Keywords: corporate culture, tax haven, tax avoidance, Machine Learning, Artificial intelligence

Suggested Citation:

Mammadov, Babak and Vakilzadeh, Hamid, Does Corporate Culture Impact Tax Avoidance: A Machine Learning Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4905794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4905794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M Anesa , N Gillespie , A P Spee , K Sadiq
The legitimation of corporate tax minimization
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 75 , p. 17 - 39 Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
R Audi , T Loughran , B Mcdonald
Trust, but verify: MD&A language and the role of trust in corporate culture
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 139 , issue 3 , p. 551 - 561 Posted: 2016
M Bjornsen , J F Downes , T C Omer
The consequences of deviating from financial reporting industry norms: Evidence from the disclosure of foreign cash
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 39 , issue 5 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
540
RANK
677,757
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies