Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Athletic Performance and State Tax Rates: Why NBA Players Perform Worse in High-Tax States

Published in: Transactions: Tennessee Journal of Business Law Vol. 26 (2024)

35 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2024 Last revised: 17 Dec 2024

Michael Conklin

Texas A&M University School of Law

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 01, 2024

Abstract

In 2023, novel research found that National Basketball Association (NBA) basketball players performed better when playing away games in no-tax states compared to high-tax states. Despite the statistically significant findings well within the 0.05 p-value, some critics asserted that this had to be nothing more than a coincidence. This Article adds the results from the 2023–24 season and applies the same methodology. This produced the same results, thus further strengthening the conclusion that state tax rates affect athletic performance. This updated Article analyses how this finding is consistent with existing literature on sports psychology and also considers the role race likely plays in the refusal of some to accept the results.

This novel finding has far-reaching implications as it provides strong, empirical support for numerous topics that were previously only discussed theoretically. This study will hopefully serve as a powerful catalyst to spark future research into related fields such as the far-reaching implications of tax policy, the significance of sports psychology, and the importance of team cohesion. Furthermore, the principles illustrated in this study are likely applicable to the corporate world as well. Therefore, this study will hopefully spark future research into how mental states in general and state tax rates specifically might affect workplace performance, including collegiality, discriminatory behaviors, risk adverseness, and ethical corporate conduct. These issues are of increased importance in modern corporate America, where the ability of workers to telecommute is rapidly increasing.

Suggested Citation:

Conklin, Michael, Athletic Performance and State Tax Rates: Why NBA Players Perform Worse in High-Tax States (June 01, 2024). Published in: Transactions: Tennessee Journal of Business Law Vol. 26 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4907302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4907302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
320,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies