Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flow-Through Entities and the OECD Pillar Two

in A. Baez, V. Chand, S. Kostic and M Tenore (eds), "Taxation of Trusts, Foundations and Similar Arrangements in a Global Setting" (Kluwer Law International 2025-26) forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024 Last revised: 12 Mar 2025

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: July 30, 2024

Abstract

The OECD GloBE rules are inherently complex, particularly when calculating the effective tax rate (ETR) involves flow-through entities acting as constituent entities (CEs) or ultimate parent entities (UPEs) within a multinational enterprise (MNE) group. This chapter analyses the intricacies of ETR calculations in these scenarios, with a focus on trusts, foundations, and other similar arrangements. It explores the OECD GloBE rules on the allocation of income, loss, and Covered Taxes, emphasizing their importance in achieving a coherent and streamlined enforcement of the global minimum tax.

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, Flow-Through Entities and the OECD Pillar Two (July 30, 2024). in A. Baez, V. Chand, S. Kostic and M Tenore (eds), "Taxation of Trusts, Foundations and Similar Arrangements in a Global Setting" (Kluwer Law International 2025-26) forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4910765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Previously
the Commentary required the CE-owner country "to recognise the income, expenditure, profit or loss of the Flow-through Entity as if it was income earned or expenditure borne by them directly , volume 155
OECD Administrative Guidance Posted: 2024
Ibid
Ibid
, volume 22 , p. 23 - 114
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
134,221
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies