Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Tax Litigation on Earnings Forecasts: Analyzing the Effect on Brazilian Companies

20 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2024

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Maurilio Arruda de Araújo

Federal University of Espirito Santo

Alfredo Sarlo Neto

Federal University of Espirito Santo

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of tax litigation on the accuracy of earnings forecasts for Brazilian publicly traded companies. Using a panel data model with fixed effects validated by the Hausman test, the research analyzes a sample of 153 companies listed on B3 from 2017 to 2022. Data from Comdinheiro Economática and Refinitiv Thomson Reuters Eikon reveal that tax litigation significantly affects forecast errors. The findings indicate a positive correlation between company size, losses, and tax litigation, suggesting larger companies with substantial losses are more susceptible to tax disputes. These results emphasize the need for strategic tax management to enhance financial forecast accuracy. Analysts and investors can use these insights for better investment decisions and risk management. Executives and managers can improve financial planning by considering tax litigation impacts. Policymakers are urged to create efficient tax dispute resolution systems to enhance market stability. Future research should explore additional variables and broader contexts to further understand the determinants of tax litigation and its effects on financial forecasting. By addressing the relationship between tax litigation and forecast accuracy, this study provides a foundation for future research and practical measures to improve financial forecasting and tax management practices.

Keywords: Tax litigation, Corporate earnings projections, Earnings forecasts, Analysts' forecast errors, Tax risk management

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Arruda, Maurílio and Sarlo Neto, Alfredo, The Impact of Tax Litigation on Earnings Forecasts: Analyzing the Effect on Brazilian Companies (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4911385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
N Agarwal , A Chalwati
Analyst forecast accuracy during COVID-19: Does prior epidemic experience matter?
China Accounting and Finance Review , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 446 - 464 Posted: 2023
C O F Almeida
Notas sobre Litigiosidade Tributária e Compliance Cooperativo no Brasil. Doutrina Nacional Posted: 2018
J Anderson , Y Cao , E J Riedl , S X Song
Other comprehensive income, its components, and analysts' forecasts
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 792 - 826 Posted: 2023
J P Andrade , W G Lucena
Análise de desempenho dos modelos de previsão de insolvência e a implementação das normas internacionais de contabilidade Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
RANK
864,731
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies