Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Indications and Presumptions: Unraveling Crucial Concepts in Tax Law and Accounting Practice

22 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2024

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: July 31, 2024

Abstract

This article provides a critical and in-depth analysis of the concepts of indication and presumption in accounting and tax law, highlighting their distinctions, practical applications, and legal implications. The research focuses on demystifying the common confusion between these terms, often considered analogous but with distinct characteristics and functions. Accounting indications are identified as circumstantial elements that point to other facts. At the same time, accounting presumptions are presented as logical reasonings that assume the integrity of a fact based on a related indication. The study employs qualitative research methods, including document analysis and legal and accounting literature review, to refute and update traditional theses, offering a new understanding of these concepts. Through practical examples and scenarios, the article demonstrates the importance of accurately interpreting indications and presumptions in forming fair and accurate judgments in tax cases, highlighting their relevance in the contemporary legal and accounting scenario. This work fills a significant gap in the existing literature, serving as a valuable resource for academics, professionals, and scholars, promoting a more effective application of these fundamental concepts.

Keywords: Accounting Indications, Tax Presumptions, Accounting Evidence, Circumstantial Evidence, Accounting-Legal Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Accounting Indications and Presumptions: Unraveling Crucial Concepts in Tax Law and Accounting Practice (July 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4911510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4911510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
T Afschrift
Traité de la preuve en droit fiscal Posted: 2004
R Altieri
L'impianto probatorio nel processo tributario
Bollettino Tributario d'Informazioni , volume 23 , p. 1754 - 1763 Posted: 2010
M Curio
Teoria de la prueba en las presunciones tributarias
Revista de Administración Tributaria , volume 45 , p. 7 - 38 Posted: 2019
E Eseverri Martínez
Presunciones legales y derecho tributario
Madrid: Instituto de Estudios Fiscales : M. Pons Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies