Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
States' Taxation of Mineral Rights and Land: Supreme Court of India expounds the law

10 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2024

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: August 02, 2024

Abstract

Levy of Mineral Taxes and Land Taxes has been a contentious issue in India owing to the peculiar constitutional scheme governing their levy. For decades the issue has received inconsistent legal judicial treatment. Recently the Supreme Court of India constituted a larger bench of 9 judges which has categorically decided the vexed issue addressing the span and contours of the States' rights to levy taxes on mineral rights and taxes on land and building. In addition to the constitutional law implications, the decision has far-reaching impact on the economic activity in the country. In addition, a variety of other constitutionally significant propositions arise from the decision which pivot its significance. This article examines the decision and its implications.

Keywords: Mineral Taxes, Mining Taxes, Land Taxes, Constitution and Tax

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, States' Taxation of Mineral Rights and Land: Supreme Court of India expounds the law (August 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4914720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
703
RANK
772,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies