Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Presumptions and Fictions in Tax Law

18 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2024

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: August 05, 2024

Abstract

This article explores the complexities of accounting presumptions and fiction and their role in tax law. Presumptions are logical processes to infer an unknown fact from a known one. They are categorized as legal, absolute or relative, and judicial presumptions. This article also discusses the importance of the presumption of good faith and the acceptance of provisional truths in tax law. On the other hand, accounting legal fictions create parallel realities that diverge from the real world, adapting according to the needs of tax legislation. Examples include the treatment of taxable income and anti-subcapitalization rules, which seek to avoid tax strategies that affect tax neutrality. This study highlights the need for an in-depth understanding of accounting presumptions and fiction to apply tax law properly.

Keywords: Accounting Tax Presumptions, Legal and Accounting Fictions, Tax Neutrality

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Accounting Presumptions and Fictions in Tax Law (August 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4916300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4916300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Caracas: Fundación Estudios de Derecho Administrativo "Funeda Posted: 2012
Carvajal , Serviliano
Las Presunciones Jurídicas
Revista de Derecho , volume 11 , p. 371 - 393 Posted: 2010
Abel Lluch , Xavier
Derecho probatorio Posted: 2012
Benazzi Adriano
L'utilizzo del modello presuntivo come strumento di prova
Corriere Tributario , volume 42 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies