Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Questions about the Taxation of Cambodian Permanent Establishments in the Wake of the 2023 Amendment of the Law on Taxation

13 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Edwin Vanderbruggen

VDB LOI

Date Written: August 01, 2024

Abstract

Cambodia’s Law on Taxation (LOT) featured a definition of “permanent establishment” (the Cambodian PE) from its first draft in 1997. The Cambodian PE functions much like in other countries as a source nexus for the Cambodian income taxation of business income derived from Cambodia by non-residents. Income from business activities by a non-resident taxpayer are only taxable in Cambodia if they are realized through a Cambodian PE. Since 1997, the Cambodian PE has only expanded, both in terms of definition and in terms of the income that is allocable to and taxable for the PE.

 

This contribution examines these expansions, particularly the most recent ones in the 2023 amendments to the LOT, and looks at the changes from the perspective of various industries and business models.

Suggested Citation:

Vanderbruggen, Edwin, Questions about the Taxation of Cambodian Permanent Establishments in the Wake of the 2023 Amendment of the Law on Taxation (August 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4918525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4918525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
RANK
897,570
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies