Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Smoother Resolution of Tax Audit Disputes in Cambodia

16 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Edwin Vanderbruggen

VDB LOI

Date Written: March 15, 2024

Abstract

There are several reasons why unresolved tax audits keep piling up with (particularly) Large Taxpayers, causing complaints. The increase in tax audit officials is significantly lagging behind the increase in the number of audits, and this is one of several important factors causing delays. Other factors are found in the structure, the process and the substance of tax audits and dispute resolution.

Keywords: Cambodia, Tax audit, Tax audit dispute, General Department of Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Vanderbruggen, Edwin, Towards a Smoother Resolution of Tax Audit Disputes in Cambodia (March 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4918408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4918408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Expand the external audit requirement to all companies and organizations. Currently Small Taxpayers are really only "small" simply because they say so. Many companies are Medium Taxpayers but are not required to have an external auditor
Strengthen the push for formalization of unregistered businesses 38 , as has often been recommended 39 , and convert much more mischaracterized Small Taxpayers to Large and Medium. If the GDT would dedicate the same resources to formalization and classification as it does to tax audits (700 officials), Cambodia would be far less dependent on its small number of Large Taxpayers
Voluntary and penalty free or reduced correction of tax returns should become a permanent possibility for all taxpayers 40
Strengthen role tax agents and auditors can play in the self-assessment. Improve scrutiny on questionable auditors and tax agents, impose fines and consider revoking their licenses in extreme circumstances
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
332
RANK
897,570
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Fiscal & Monetary Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies