Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU's Uncoordinated Approach to Tax Avoidance and Tax Abuse in Relation to 'Uncooperative' Tax Jurisdictions

Intertax, Volume 50, Issue 3 (2022), pp. 205–217, DOI: https://doi.org/10.54648/taxi2022020 

13 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2024

Stefanie Geringer

University of Vienna

Date Written: March 01, 2022

Abstract

The European Union (EU)'s external tax policies in relation to 'uncooperative' tax jurisdictions are predominantly shaped by the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), the Member States' domestic tax laws and, most recently, the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes (EU blacklist). Research in academia scholarship has assessed the EU blacklist from various angles. The objective of this article is to contribute to this discussion by contextualizing the EU blacklist with the relevant CJEU case law on anti-avoidance and antiabuse provisions applied in third country situations. Beyond an assessment from a doctrinal perspective, particular emphasis is placed on related tax policy issues. This combined evaluation yields three primary conclusions: the EU blacklist's soft law character allows the Member States to continue to take advantage of type-casted and irrebuttable anti-avoidance and anti-abuse provisions in light of the CJEU case law; the EU blacklist's inability to meet its initial objectives can be explained by political dynamics at the EU level; and the EU blacklist might relieve some of the currently manifesting symptoms without addressing the fundamental flaws in the international tax system.

Note: “Reprinted from INTERTAX, Volume 50, Issue 3, 2022, 205-217, with permission of Kluwer Law International.”

Keywords: CJEU case law, developing countries, EU blacklist, EU external tax policies, free movement of capital, harmful tax competition, mutual assistance, tax abuse, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Geringer, Stefanie, The EU's Uncoordinated Approach to Tax Avoidance and Tax Abuse in Relation to 'Uncooperative' Tax Jurisdictions (March 01, 2022). Intertax, Volume 50, Issue 3 (2022), pp. 205–217, DOI: https://doi.org/10.54648/taxi2022020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4925789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies