Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of the Exchange of Information Standards from a Global Perspective: The Influence of the OECD on EU Legislation

Exchange of Information in the EU: Taxpayers’ Rights, Transparency and Effectiveness (Marina Serrat Romani, Jasper Korving and Mariolina Eliantonio eds, Edward Elgar Publishing 2024), pp. 177–195

Posted: 16 Sep 2024

Stefanie Geringer

University of Vienna

Date Written: May 23, 2023

Abstract

This chapter examines the evolution of information exchange standards at the OECD level from their earliest beginnings to the present day. The actions taken are placed in the context of their political, economic, social and legal environment to provide explanations for the status quo and to illustrate their impact and importance for the exchange of information within the EU territory, thus building a bridge to the chapters devoted to the individual EU directives. In order to provide a well-structured and easily accessible overview, the assessment is structured according to the type of information exchange and the legal quality of the underlying instrument respectively. The analysis will show that the OECD standards for information exchange have proven to be very influential and can indeed be seen as the main driver of the corresponding initiatives at the EU level.

Keywords: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) exchange of information upon request, spontaneous exchange of information, automatic exchange of information, multilateral agreements, recommendations for unilateral action

Suggested Citation:

Geringer, Stefanie, The Evolution of the Exchange of Information Standards from a Global Perspective: The Influence of the OECD on EU Legislation (May 23, 2023). Exchange of Information in the EU: Taxpayers’ Rights, Transparency and Effectiveness (Marina Serrat Romani, Jasper Korving and Mariolina Eliantonio eds, Edward Elgar Publishing 2024), pp. 177–195, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4925775
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies