Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Winning by Losing: The Strategy of Adverse Private Letter Rulings

66 Boston College Law Review 661 (2025)

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2024-57

88 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024 Last revised: 31 Mar 2025

Noah Hertz Marks

Duke University School of Law

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

Every year, the Internal Revenue Service issues hundreds of Private Letter Rulings (PLRs) responding to formal taxpayer inquiries about how tax law will apply to their proposed situations and transactions. Once issued, PLRs (which read like judicial opinions) functionally bind the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the requesting taxpayer. And while the Internal Revenue Code formally forbids relying on PLRs as precedent, taxpayers and practitioners closely monitor and structure their operations and advice around PLRs. 



After submitting a PLR request, taxpayers can withdraw it at any time for any (or no) reason. Furthermore, the PLR process is collaborative, so requesting taxpayers know, far in advance, whether the PLR will be favorable or adverse. Because it is hard to imagine why a taxpayer would want the government to issue a formal letter presumptively committing to an adverse position, it is assumed that only a handful of adverse PLRs exist and, in theory, none should exist. But in fact, a significant number of adverse PLRs do exist, and this article is the first systematic empirical analysis of them. It examines a unique dataset of 461 adverse PLRs drawn from review of approximately 10,000 PLRs and stretching from 1977 (when PLRs were first systematically published) through 2023. Only ninety-seven (21%) of them can be explained by human foibles like taxpayer apathy and mistakes. The rest-a significant majority-appear to be strategic actions by requesting taxpayers. Notably, sixty (13%) likely were obtained for highly strategic reasons motivated by PLRs' normative force: either to generate backlash against the IRS or to level competitive playing fields. 


Examining adverse PLRs begins to map the substantive world of PLRs and leads to several normative implications for PLRs and the tax system. Such implications include broadening and formalizing third-party input and feedback on PLRs and modifying the PLR process to avoid inequitable access to consequential IRS guidance. Finally, based on the parallels between the highly strategic uses of adverse PLRs and impact litigation, this article proposes using PLRs to pursue public interest, pro-fisc policies and counteract aggressive and even abusive tax positions.

Suggested Citation:

Marks, Noah, Winning by Losing: The Strategy of Adverse Private Letter Rulings (August 15, 2024). 66 Boston College Law Review 661 (2025), Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2024-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4926970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
150 References
For clarity, however, I use "office" to refer to the local IRS field offices, service centers, and campuses that process tax returns
); Rev. Proc. 2025-1 § 11.03, 2025-1 I.R.B. 64. PLRs protect requesting taxpayers even when the IRS later issues contrary precedential guidance (including Regulations)
); Rev. Proc. 2025-1 § 11.04, 2025-1 I.R.B. 64-65. Revocations and modifications of PLRs are technically presumptively retroactive to all open tax years
Treas , Reg
, volume 601 Posted: 1967-08-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
325,828
150 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies