Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revocation of Israel's Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages: A Blessing or a Curse?

The IUP Journal of International Relations, vol. 17(3), 19-42, 2023

Posted: 17 Sep 2024

Nellie Munin

Independent

Date Written: October 01, 2023

Abstract

This article analyzes, as a test case, the Israeli experience of imposing a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages. Discussing the globally acknowledged health justification for its imposition, the criticism regarding its effectiveness, and the domestic political resistance that led to its eventual abolishment, the article compares this experience with other countries' practices, drawing lessons in terms of the tax effectiveness to meet its goal, its design, the long-term economic and health implications of its abolishment and the due balance of involved interests.

Suggested Citation:

Munin, Nellie, Revocation of Israel's Tax on Sugar-Sweetened Beverages: A Blessing or a Curse? (October 01, 2023). The IUP Journal of International Relations, vol. 17(3), 19-42, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4926597
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies