Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Expenditures and Horizontal Equity: A Present-Day Reassessment

28 CHAP. L. REV. 43 (2024)

34 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2024 Last revised: 13 Jan 2025

Nir Fishbien

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: August 18, 2024

Abstract

Tax expenditures are “revenue losses attributable to provisions of the Federal tax laws which allow a special exclusion, exemption, or deduction from gross income or which provide a special credit, a preferential rate of tax, or a deferral of tax liability.” The concept of tax expenditures was coined by the first Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, Stanley S. Surrey, in the late 1960s, and was codified by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, which requires that a list of tax expenditures be included in the U.S. budget. The concept relies on the Haig-Simons definition of income (with certain adjustments) as the baseline, a deviation from which is considered a tax expenditure.

There are two basic problems with attempts to define tax expenditures against a Haig-Simons baseline. First, it is not clear why the Haig-Simons, and not other definitions of income, should be used as a baseline. Second, it is not clear why such deviations are normatively problematic. Put bluntly, who cares whether a specific tax provision is a deviation from some theoretical definition of income?

This article represents an attempt to recapture Surrey’s original view of tax expenditures and assess its present-day implications, most importantly that tax expenditures should be viewed as an attempt to identify departures that violate principles of horizontal equity, i.e., the idea that taxpayers with equal ability to pay should bear an equal burden of tax. As such, eliminating tax expenditures means eliminating many of the biases that are currently an integral part of the tax system. Doing so will make the tax system much more equitable for most Americans than any tax reform currently contemplated by Congress.

Keywords: tax expenditures, Stanley Surrey, tax policy, fiscal policy

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H27, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fishbien, Nir, Tax Expenditures and Horizontal Equity: A Present-Day Reassessment (August 18, 2024). 28 CHAP. L. REV. 43 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Similar considerations led him to support the Subpart-F legislation earlier in 1962. See Nir Fishbien, From Switzerland with Love: Surrey's Papers and the Original Intent(s) of Subpart-F, 38 VA. TAX REV Posted: 2018
U S Dep
, p. 326 - 340 Posted: 1968-06-30
See Edward , D Kleinbard
Tax Expenditure Framework Legislation, 63 NAT
358. 13 Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 , volume 353 Posted: 2010
Allen Schick
CONGRESS AND MONEY: BUDGETING, SPENDING AND , volume 17
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
640,442
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies