Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Choice of Accounting Standards under Competing Tax and External Reporting Preferences: Evidence from Intangible Asset Reporting in Small Private Firms

68 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2024 Last revised: 25 Nov 2024

Niclas Hellman

Stockholm School of Economics

Jamil Najjar

Stockholm School of Economics

Milda Tylaite

Stockholm School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

In 2014, all Swedish small private firms (legal entities) were required to choose between an external reporting-oriented standard (K3) based on IFRS for SMEs (2009 version) and a simplified reporting standard designed to minimize tax-accounting differences (K2). Using this shock to the reporting environment, we study firms’ reporting choices in the context of competing tax and external reporting preferences. We provide direct evidence of the role these preferences play in firm-level reporting and, in several ways, highlight the importance for such firms to be able to report internally generated intangible assets. Our results also suggest that these reporting choices are oriented towards stakeholders other than credit providers. We present important insights for standard setters and regulators reviewing the reporting requirements applicable to private firms.

Keywords: private firms, tax, IFRS for SMEs, voluntary adoption, intangible assets

Declaration of Interest

The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.

Ethics Approval

The participants of the survey have consented to the use of their responses for research purposes.

Funder Statement

This work was supported by Jan Wallander and Tom Hedelius Foundation.

Suggested Citation:

Hellman, Niclas and Najjar, Jamil and Tylaite, Milda, The Choice of Accounting Standards under Competing Tax and External Reporting Preferences: Evidence from Intangible Asset Reporting in Small Private Firms (November 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4933417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4933417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
568
RANK
772,528
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies