Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transforming Tax Expenditures

U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper #24-30

2024 Colum. Bus. L. Rev. 623

103 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024 Last revised: 12 Mar 2025

Sloan G. Speck

University of Colorado Law School

Date Written: August 22, 2024

Abstract

For decades, reformers have advocated the repeal of tax expenditures—disguised government spending through special preferences in the Internal Revenue Code. And yet, tax expenditures persist, impairing federal tax receipts by more than $1.8 trillion in 2024. This Article introduces a novel mechanism for tax expenditure reform. To the extent that direct statutory repeal proves impossible or impractical, lawmakers can achieve an equivalent result through a strategy of legislative anti-repeal. By radically expanding a tax expenditure’s legal scope, then adjusting progressive income tax rates to account for revenue loss and distributional considerations, lawmakers can effectively eliminate tax expenditures from the tax base and integrate them into the rate structure—a process this Article defines as “base-rate transformation.”


Base-rate transformations reframe conventional understandings of repeal and restrictive reform, as well as traditional reform narratives oriented around a mantra of “broad base, low rates.” Under certain conditions, statutory expansion operates as de facto repeal—or as restrictive reform. The crucial insight is that, for tax expenditures, the stakes of legal change lie largely in how lawmakers address any adjustments to statutory rates. From a normative perspective, base-rate transformations have implications for customary tax norms such as equity, efficiency, and complexity, as well as the political economy of tax expenditure reform. More generally, base-rate transformations challenge standard framings of tax expenditures and press for a more holistic approach to legislative changes to these provisions.

Keywords: tax expenditures, tax policy, tax reform, pass-through deduction, taxation of health insurance

Suggested Citation:

Speck, Sloan G., Transforming Tax Expenditures (August 22, 2024). U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper #24-30, 2024 Colum. Bus. L. Rev. 623, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4933867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4933867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
I Tax Expenditures
B. Disguised Spending and Upside-Down Subsidies . C. Base Expansion and Efficiency-Oriented Reform
Ii
Lawmaking and the Base-Rate Identity
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
720
RANK
719,188
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Colorado Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies