Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the Taxation of Life Insurance

44 Va. Tax. Rev. 235 (2025)

Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 24-20

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 24-31

67 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2024 Last revised: 31 Jul 2025

Ari Glogower

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law

Andrew Granato

Yale School of Management; Yale Law School

Date Written: August 23, 2024

Abstract

The purpose of life insurance was once to provide financial protection to “widows and orphans” upon an untimely death. Now, wealthy investors also use it to avoid paying taxes. Thanks to federal tax benefits for life insurance, insurers now market policies designed explicitly as vehicles for tax avoidance, with insurance protection as an afterthought.

Well-advised taxpayers accomplish this disappearing tax trick through a “cash value” policy. These policies contain an internal savings balance, which over time can transform the policy from an insurance product into an investment account that can still qualify for insurance tax exemptions. No other investment form—even explicitly tax-preferred savings vehicles like IRAs—offers the same combination of tax benefits with minimal restrictions. In the new market for life insurance, the current rules increasingly operate as a subsidy to the rich, invite abusive planning, and can obstruct broader capital income tax reforms.

“Private placement life insurance” (PPLI) policies, a variation of cash value life insurance, now allow rich investors to avoid taxation on an even wider range of boutique investments, such as hedge funds and private equity. These market innovations have brought new attention to the taxation of life insurance, and motivated current legislative reforms targeting PPLI strategies.

This Article provides a comprehensive study of the taxation of life insurance. It presents new empirical analysis of trends in life insurance ownership, finding that policies issued today are larger and more concentrated among the richest taxpayers. It then presents a framework for evaluating reforms that can be implemented by Congress, the IRS, and the judiciary, and considers the tradeoffs of different reform directions. The Article ultimately proposes a relatively simple yet powerful reform: capping the size of tax-preferred policies. This approach could address the new market for life insurance and realign its tax benefits with their original policy justifications.

Keywords: Life Insurance, Tax Law, Tax Policy, Private Placement Life Insurance, PPLI

JEL Classification: H2, H20, K34, G52, G22

Suggested Citation:

Glogower, Ari and Granato, Andrew, Reforming the Taxation of Life Insurance (August 23, 2024). 44 Va. Tax. Rev. 235 (2025), Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 24-20, Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 24-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4935206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4935206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
I R C
§ § 1(h) (capital gains rate structure), 1221(a) (definition of a capital asset
I R C
171 See supra note 104 and accompanying text. 172 For descriptions of prominent estate tax reduction and avoidance strategies, see generally Posted: 1014
J Daniel , Robert Hemel , Lord
Closing Gaps in the Estate and Gift Tax Base
, volume 937 Posted: 2024
See Ari , Glogower
Taxing Capital Appreciation, 70 TAX L. REV , volume 111 , p. 116 - 120 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
785
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,511
RANK
72,940
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies