Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EU Adoption of DAC 8 - Mandatory Exchange of Information between Tax Authorities on Crypto Assets

Transatlantic Antitrust and IPR Developments, Issue 2/2023

8 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2024

Amedeo Rizzo

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Bocconi University; Stanford Law School

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

On the 17th of October 2023, the Council of the European Union approved Directive DAC 8 on administrative cooperation, introducing significant modifications related to the communication and automatic exchange of information regarding proceeds from operations in cryptoassets and information on advance tax rulings for high-net-worth individuals. With this directive, the EU, considering the new opportunities brought about by digitalization, aims to expand the scope of the obligation for automatic exchange of information, fostering a higher degree of administrative cooperation among tax administrations.

Suggested Citation:

Rizzo, Amedeo, EU Adoption of DAC 8 - Mandatory Exchange of Information between Tax Authorities on Crypto Assets (December 01, 2023). Transatlantic Antitrust and IPR Developments, Issue 2/2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4938721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4938721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
444,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies