Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Analytics for Real Assets -Primary Residence

7 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2024

Michael Adegbite

College of William and Mary

Date Written: June 07, 2024

Abstract

Taxpayers in the United States convert their primary residence into rental property for a host of reasons. While some taxpayers do this merely for a passive stream of income, other taxpayers do it for the deductions and benefits associated with not disposing of the property, for example, in 2019, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued that certain interests in real estate can be treated as qualified business income for tax liability reduction purposes.

For whatever reason the taxpayer chooses to enter the world of rental properties, rental income has become increasingly popular as a lucrative and stable way for people to augment their income with many taxpayers converting a section or even the entirety of primary residence into rental property.

A taxpayer’s primary residence has generally been considered as personal property, however, in the court case, Bolaris v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the ninth circuit court of appeals changed the status of primary residences enabling it to have chameleon like attributes which a lot of taxpayers involved with converted rental properties have struggled to understand. This research paper aims to highlight common misconceptions about converting a primary residence to rental property, the benefits attached with rental property and explore what the IRS considers a genuinely converted property.

Suggested Citation:

Adegbite, Michael, Accounting Analytics for Real Assets -Primary Residence (June 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4939524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4939524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
227
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies