Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Irrelevance of the “Practical Man” Test to the Interpretation of New Zealand's Source Rules

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 30(4) 2024, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2024 Last revised: 5 Apr 2025

Victoria Plekhanova

University of Auckland - Department of Commercial Law

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

This article discusses the “practical man” test developed in Nathan v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation, explains why the application of this test in CIR v. NV Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken was unsuitable and unhelpful for an interpretation of the statutory catch-all source provision in New Zealand income tax legislation, and develops a theory that explains the place of source rules in New Zealand’s income tax system and offers a systematic approach to their interpretation. 

Suggested Citation:

Plekhanova, Victoria, On the Irrelevance of the “Practical Man” Test to the Interpretation of New Zealand's Source Rules (January 31, 2024). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy 30(4) 2024, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4940184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
For detail see Plekhanova
Lita
Posted: 1916
LITA 1954, s 167; ITA 1976, s 243; ITA 1994
LITA 1913, s 87 , volume 4
ITA 2007, s YD , volume 5
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies