Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of the Income Tax Nexus Rules in New Zealand’s Statutes

New Zealand Universities Law Review 31(1) 2024, pp 139-183

Posted: 19 Sep 2024 Last revised: 5 Apr 2025

Victoria Plekhanova

University of Auckland - Department of Commercial Law

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

This article looks at the development and evolution of the income tax nexus rules in New Zealand statutes, and at how these developments are related to the main economic events and other factors that have together shaped New Zealand’s income tax base. The primary aim is to identify the sources of the most common income tax nexuses in New Zealand statutes, and the reasons behind substantive changes to them over time. This largely historical research project provides the important contextual background necessary to understanding the inconsistencies in the existing statutory income tax nexus rules and to develop proposals for reform. It also helps advance a scholarly discussion about convergence and divergence of tax systems and tax rules.

Suggested Citation:

Plekhanova, Victoria, The Evolution of the Income Tax Nexus Rules in New Zealand’s Statutes (December 11, 2023). New Zealand Universities Law Review 31(1) 2024, pp 139-183, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4940172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies