Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nontax Use of Tax Havens: Evidence from Captive Insurance

58 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024 Last revised: 14 May 2025

Bradford Hepfer

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: May 13, 2025

Abstract

Corporate tax avoidance is a recurring focus of policymakers, the media, activist groups, and researchers. This focus often centers on multinational enterprises’ (MNEs) use of tax havens, with a wide body of research utilizing MNEs’ tax haven use as evidence of corporate tax avoidance activities. However, the common assumption that MNEs operate in tax havens primarily for tax avoidance purposes overlooks the role tax havens play as homes for captive insurance entities, which allow firms to secure “self” insurance coverage, but do not provide obvious differential federal tax benefits. We document that non-financial firms’ use of captive insurance occurs in approximately 11 percent of firm-years and spans nearly all Fama-French 49 industries. We construct a captive haven use determinants model, with strong discriminatory power and compelling out-of-sample corroboration tests, that researchers can employ to account for firms’ use of haven captives. When we remove the effect of captives on tax haven-based measures, we observe a roughly threefold increase in the magnitude of tax savings specifically associated with noncaptive haven activity, underscoring the importance of separating captive and noncaptive-related haven activities. 

Keywords: tax, haven, captive insurance, corporate subsidiaries

Suggested Citation:

Hepfer, Bradford and Wilde, Jaron H. and Wilson, Ryan J., Nontax Use of Tax Havens: Evidence from Captive Insurance (May 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4942068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4942068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
752
RANK
439,313
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies