Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Design of Partial Population Experiments with an Application to Spillovers in Tax Compliance

IZA Discussion Paper No. 17692

81 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2024 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Guillermo Cruces

Universidad Nacional de La Plata (UNLP) - Centro de Estudios Distributivos, Laborales y Sociales (CEDLAS); IZA

Dario Tortarolo

World Bank

Gonzalo Vazquez-Bare

University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB)

Abstract

This paper develops a framework to analyze partial population experiments, a generalization of the cluster experimental design where clusters are assigned to different treatment intensities. The framework allows for heterogeneity in cluster sizes and outcome distributions. The paper studies the large-sample behavior of OLS estimators and cluster-robust variance estimators and shows that (i) ignoring cluster heterogeneity may result in severely underpowered experiments and (ii) the clusterrobust variance estimator may be upward-biased when clusters are heterogeneous. The paper derives formulas for power, minimum detectable effects, and optimal cluster assignment probabilities. All the results apply to cluster experiments, a particular case of the framework. The paper sets up a potential outcomes framework to interpret the OLS estimands as causal effects. It implements the methods in a large-scale experiment to estimate the direct and spillover effects of a communication campaign on property tax compliance. The analysis reveals an increase in tax compliance among individuals directly targeted with the mailing, as well as compliance spillovers on untreated individuals in clusters with a high proportion of treated taxpayers.

Keywords: two-stage designs, partial population experiments, spillovers, randomized controlled trials, cluster experiments, property tax, tax compliance

JEL Classification: C01, C93, H71, H71, H26, H26, H21, H21, O23

Suggested Citation:

Cruces, Guillermo and Tortarolo, Dario and Vazquez-Bare, Gonzalo, Design of Partial Population Experiments with an Application to Spillovers in Tax Compliance. IZA Discussion Paper No. 17692, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4944888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Alberto Abadie , Susan Athey , Guido W Imbens , Jeffrey M Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering?
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2022
Manuela Angelucci , Giacomo De , Giorgi
Indirect Effects of an Aid Program: How Do Cash Transfers Affect Ineligibles' Consumption?
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 486 - 508 Posted: 2009
Armenak Antinyan , Zareh Asatryan
Nudging for Tax Compliance: a Meta-Analysis*
The Economic Journal Posted: 2024
Susan Athey , Dean Eckles , Guido W Imbens
Exact P-values for Network Interference
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 113 , issue 521 , p. 230 - 240 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
342
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies