Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Realization Rule as a Legal Standard

16 Colum. J. Tax. L. 1 (2024)

U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper #24-31

50 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024 Last revised: 1 Feb 2025

Sloan G. Speck

University of Colorado Law School

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

The realization “rule” in tax law is better characterized as a legal standard. This characterization matters after the Supreme Court’s decision in Moore v. United States, which sets the stage for future courts to decide that the Constitution mandates realization—an identifiable event before accrued income is reportable by taxpayers. The stakes of a constitutional realization requirement are underappreciated. Because current statutory law embeds realization as a background principle, a constitutional realization requirement would operate as a taxpayer-initiated antiabuse doctrine—a sword that taxpayers could use selectively to invalidate parts of the Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations. This novel legal tool has adverse implications for the U.S. tax system’s structure and complexity.
Through the lens of the longstanding academic literature on legal rules and standards, the dangers of a constitutional realization requirement extend beyond top-down risks to individual Internal Revenue Code provisions or, as the Moore majority posited, entire taxing regimes. Instead, a constitutional realization requirement threatens to erode federal income tax law from the bottom up, through incremental public and private challenges to the fundamental mechanics of taxation. Realization and nonrealization permeate business entity taxation in deeply technical ways. In these areas, a constitutional realization requirement may facilitate aggressive private planning, undermine the law’s coherence, and dampen reform efforts. Even Moore’s whisper of a constitutional realization requirement ventures into poorly charted territory, with potentially detrimental consequences that may prove difficult to unwind.
Moreover, a constitutional realization requirement portends increased complexity in tax law. Government-asserted antiabuse doctrines constrain complexity by allowing lawmakers to write simpler rules that cover high-frequency transactions. Low-frequency transactions, including those that reflect inappropriate tax planning, are addressed through (and discouraged by) open-ended standards in the enforcement process. As a taxpayer-initiated antiabuse doctrine, a constitutional realization requirement would have the reverse effect, increasing complexity by increasing the frequency of tax-planned transactions, encouraging more costly government responses to taxpayer abuse, and changing the dynamics of enforcement. The resulting complexity would be systemic—and could increase over time.

Keywords: Constitutional law, tax law, realization, tax planning, rules and standards, complexity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Speck, Sloan G., The Realization Rule as a Legal Standard (September 05, 2024). 16 Colum. J. Tax. L. 1 (2024), U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper #24-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Alan Rappeport
How a Legal Fight Over a $15,000 Tax Bill Could Upend the U.S. Tax Code Posted: 2023-05
Richard Rubin , & Jess Bravin , ; J St
One Supreme Court Case Could Mess Up Chunks of the Tax Code Posted: 2023-12-03
Mark Joseph , Stern
Sam Alito's Lonely Fight to Defend His Friend's Harebrained Anti-Tax Scheme
SLATE Posted: 2023-05
Boris I Bittker
Federal Income Taxation of Individuals § 3.2, Westlaw (database updated Apr. 2024) ("[R]ealization is nevertheless so basic to the taxing structure of existing law that the general principle is simply not challenged
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
966
RANK
541,990
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Colorado Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies