Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moores Lost Their Claim and Moore

TAX NOTES FEDERAL, VOLUME 184, AUGUST 19, 2024

5 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024

Lily L. Batchelder

New York University School of Law

Ari Glogower

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law

Chye-Ching Huang

New York University School of Law

David Kamin

New York University School of Law

Rebecca M. Kysar

Fordham University School of Law

Kelsey Merrick

Tax Law Center at NYU Law

Darien Shanske

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Thalia Spinrad

Tax Law Center at NYU Law

Date Written: August 19, 2024

Abstract

In this article, the authors analyze the logic of Moore and argue that in many important ways, the decision undercuts attempts to sharply limit Congress’s taxing power. 

Many others have already commented on potential future challenges to the scope of Congress’s taxing power, noting that Moore may be just one battle in a larger war. That may be true, as we now know for certain that four justices believe there is a realization requirement in the 16th Amendment and may not share the majority’s concern with disrupting the existing tax system. But four is not five, and even the two justices joining the Barrett concurrence acknowledged that the concept of realization defies a clear definition. The logic of the majority opinion joined in full by five members of the Court points in the direction of continuing, as the courts have been doing for decades, to give Congress significant leeway in deciding how to measure and attribute income, including how to define “realization.”

Keywords: Moore v. United States, Tax Policy, Constitutional Law, Tax Law, Income Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Batchelder, Lily L. and Glogower, Ari and Huang, Chye-Ching and Kamin, David and Kysar, Rebecca M. and Merrick, Kelsey and Shanske, Darien and Spinrad, Thalia, The Moores Lost Their Claim and Moore (August 19, 2024). TAX NOTES FEDERAL, VOLUME 184, AUGUST 19, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4948021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4948021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies