Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Individual Side of International Taxation: The Case of the OECD/G20 BEPS Project

World Tax Journal, volume 16, issue 2, 2024 [10.59403/2gz81wc]

Posted: 16 Oct 2024

Ekaterina Tibilova

Independent

Date Written: August 02, 2024

Abstract

The research examines how the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project addresses the participation of individual owners of multinational enterprises in BEPS arrangements. It delves into existing scholarly knowledge and uncertainties in this area, discusses the key factors shaping general opinions and offers a more comprehensive analysis of potential policy options, implications and challenges stemming from the BEPS Project's provisions addressing individual involvement in the BEPS arrangements of multinational enterprises. In addition to bridging the gap in academic knowledge, this research aims to aid governments in implementing relevant national policies and lays the groundwork for further academic research into various aspects of the BEPS Project at the global and national levels.

Keywords: OECD, BEPS, Income Tax, International Taxation, Tax Law, Tax Policy, MNE, Individual, Wealth, Rich, Tax Avoidance, Profit Shifting, Base Erosion, Transfer Pricing, Permanent Establishment, Transparent Entities, Interest Deduction, Related Parties, Associated Entities, Hybrid Mismatch

Suggested Citation:

Tibilova, Ekaterina, The Individual Side of International Taxation: The Case of the OECD/G20 BEPS Project (August 02, 2024). World Tax Journal, volume 16, issue 2, 2024 [10.59403/2gz81wc], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4952218
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies