Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Tax Incentives for Innovation in Pharma, Biotech, and MedTech: A Comparative Study Between the EU and the US Regulatory Approaches

Stanford-Vienna TTLF Working Paper No. 123

51 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Amedeo Rizzo

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Bocconi University; Stanford Law School

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, I conduct a comparative study of the tax policies implemented by the European Union and the United States to enhance innovation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical technology industries. These industries are quite peculiar, because of the high social impact of the projects and the specific market dynamics, like, for instance, in orphan drugs and vaccines. The flow of knowledge is a fundamental engine for innovation in these sectors, and the role of intellectual property rights seems uncertain, according to contrasting results in empirical research. Therefore, the use of the tax system to incentivize investments and R&D activities in these sectors can take on a prominent role. However, tax incentives need to be carefully designed, and their adoption might need some industry-specific considerations. The first part of this work will focus on these considerations of tax policy design, differentiating between human capital- and capital expendituresoriented tax incentives and identifying the main instruments adopted by the EU Member States and the US. In this context, I analyze different types of tax incentives, both sector-specific and general, like cashable or non-cashable R&D tax credits, Intellectual Property Boxes, personal income tax reductions for highly skilled individuals, and capital gains taxes.  In the second part of the paper, I conduct a comparative analysis of the regulatory frameworks of the European Union and the United States. In comparing the two different ways of achieving similar objectives, I formulate specific considerations on the different designs of the tax policies, underlining potential causes and consequences of different choices. In understanding the effects of the converging and diverging policy choices, which are often rooted in the regulatory structures of the two Transatlantic blocs, I take into account macroeconomic trends and firms’ investment data. Consequently, I draw final considerations according to the findings of the analysis, including hints for further research. 

Suggested Citation:

Rizzo, Amedeo, The Role of Tax Incentives for Innovation in Pharma, Biotech, and MedTech: A Comparative Study Between the EU and the US Regulatory Approaches (September 10, 2024). Stanford-Vienna TTLF Working Paper No. 123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4952371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4952371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Tax Incentives For Pharma , Biotech Medtech
Personal Income Tax Reductions for Highly Skilled Individuals
Load more
1 Citations
Frederico Severino Martins , Sivacharan Kollipara , Praveen Sivadasu , Mingming Yu , Patricia Severino , Eliana Souto
The Innovation Paradox in Emerging Pharmaceutical Markets: Barriers and Opportunities for Sustainable Development
Pharmaceutical Research , volume 42 , issue 6 , p. 1047 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
RANK
304,992
1 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies