Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Diverse Tax Planning Reduce Tax Risk?

55 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2024

Kimberly S. Krieg

University of San Diego - Department of Accountancy

John Li

Toronto Metropolitan University

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between diverse tax planning and a firm’s level of tax risk. Prior studies have demonstrated that firms face a trade-off between engaging in tax avoidance and managing exposure to tax risk. We propose that firms may be able to achieve both objectives by diversifying their portfolios of tax avoidance strategies. We create two measures of diversification based on two different ways of measuring tax avoidance. Using these two measures, we find that tax strategy diversification benefits firms in two ways. First, when holding the level of tax avoidance constant, increasing diversification reduces the firm’s exposure to tax risk. Second, when firms increase their level of tax avoidance, having higher diversification mitigates the impact of the increased tax avoidance on their tax risk exposure. Our study highlights the benefits of firms engaging in a diverse portfolio of tax strategies and shows that the relationship between tax avoidance and tax risk is contingent on the firm’s diversification, which may provide an explanation for the mixed evidence found in prior literature.

Keywords: tax risk, tax avoidance, tax planning, effective tax rates, diversification, tax strategies

Suggested Citation:

Krieg, Kimberly S. and Li, John, Does Diverse Tax Planning Reduce Tax Risk?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4954981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4954981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J L Abernathy , A R Finley , E T Rapley , J Stekelberg
External auditor responses to tax risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2019
B A Bardertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
A M Bauer , K J Klassen
Estimating downside tax risk: exploration of unfavorable tax settlements Posted: 2014
C Beidleman
Income smoothing: The role of management
The Accounting Review , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 653 - 667 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
538
RANK
580,215
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies