Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Tax Complacency, Knowledge, and Penalty Affects Tax Compliance in the Informal Sector of Pakistan: The Mediatory Role of Tax Attitude, Volunteer, and Taxpayer Trust, Complemented by Tax Morale, and Tax Patriotism

36 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2024

Afnan Murad

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Danish Ahmed Siddiqui

University of Karachi - Karachi University Business School

Date Written: June 12, 2024

Abstract

According to the research, tax morale has a huge effect on compliance with tax behavior and is strongly linked to tax effort strategies across nations. Even though they are essential to the efficiency of tax policy and tax audit, tax morale and governance are misjudged and ignored on the aspects of tax and its compliance. This study aims to explore the mechanism by which different human factors affect Tax compliance. For this, we proposed a theoretical framework. We contend that factors such as Tax Complacency, and Tax Knowledge increase the attitude toward tax, enable people to volunteer for taxes, and enhance Taxpayer Trust. These three factors along with the Tax Penalty tend to increase Tax Compliance. We also contend that tax morals positively moderate the effect of Tax Complacency, and Knowledge on Tax Attitude, Volunteerism, and Trust, in a way that higher morals enhance the effect of Complacency, and Knowledge on their outcomes. We also infer that the effect of Tax Penalty on compliance is higher in the case of higher Tax Patriotism. Empirical validity was established by conducting a survey using a close-ended questionnaire. Data was collected from 230 respondents and analyzed using confirmatory factor analysis and structured equation modeling. The results suggested that Tax Complacency seems to exert a positive impact on Tax Attitude, whereas Tax Knowledge positively impacts Tax volunteers and trust. Both Tax Volunteer and Trust in turn seem to increase Tax Compliance. Results also suggest that Tax Morale also seems to positively affect Tax Attitude, moreover it also positively complements the effect of Complacency on trust in a way that the effect of Complacency on trust is high in case of higher tax morale.

Keywords: Tax Complacency, Tax Attitude, Tax Knowledge, Tax volunteers, Taxpayer trust, Tax morale

Suggested Citation:

Murad, Afnan and Siddiqui, Danish Ahmed, How Tax Complacency, Knowledge, and Penalty Affects Tax Compliance in the Informal Sector of Pakistan: The Mediatory Role of Tax Attitude, Volunteer, and Taxpayer Trust, Complemented by Tax Morale, and Tax Patriotism (June 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4954282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4954282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
562
RANK
511,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies