Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining the Beneficial Owner of Dividend Income Compared to Other Items of Income in International Taxation: nihil sub sōle novum

Nordic Tax Journal, 0, 2024 [10.2478/ntaxj-2024-0004]

28 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2024

Blazej Kuzniacki

Lazarski University

Date Written: September 06, 2024

Abstract

This article focuses on how the concept of beneficial ownership (BO) is determined and applied in international taxation. Although the article analyzes the concept of BO under tax treaties, i.e., the major source of law reducing or eliminating withholding taxation (WHT) on cross-border income at the source state, it is by analogy relevant to European Union (EU) law. The analysis aims to verify whether the meaning of BO in legal provisions regulating WHT on dividend income is the same as under provisions dealing with such taxation on other types of income (typically interest and royalties). The article answers that research question affirmatively, arguing that the concept of BO should be understood in the same way under all provisions concerning WHT on income. This argument follows from the observation that the concept of BO has one and the same income allocation function under these provisions. In contrast, the anti-abusive function should be essentially dismissed, especially in the presence of general anti-abusive rules such as the principal purposes test (PPT) or the general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR). This approach to determining BO is agnostic, and so it applies alike to WHT on income under tax treaties across the globe and EU law.

Keywords: Dividend Income, Beneficial Owner, International Taxation, Withholding Tax, Tax Policy, Tax Certainty

Suggested Citation:

Kuzniacki, Blazej, Determining the Beneficial Owner of Dividend Income Compared to Other Items of Income in International Taxation: nihil sub sōle novum (September 06, 2024). Nordic Tax Journal, 0, 2024 [10.2478/ntaxj-2024-0004], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4957687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2478/ntaxj-2024-0004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
RANK
314,322
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies