Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reimagining Global Tax Governance: A Two-sided Platform Perspective

Posted: 28 Oct 2024

Eduardo A. Baistrocchi

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: September 18, 2024

Abstract

The international tax regime (ITR) faces an existential challenge in the early 21st century. There are reasons to argue that the world economy is dealing with a trilemma: liberal democracy, national self-determination, and deep economic globalization cannot coexist because they are now incompatible. So, a central question is whether the ITR global governance structure may be adapted to solve the trilemma and make the ITR more responsive to people's evolving needs and values worldwide.

This chapter proposes a new global tax governance model designed to address the trilemma in the ITR. This model has been developed to meet the eight tests outlined by the UN General Assembly in 2023 for governing the framework convention on international tax cooperation and to ensure compatibility with the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project.

The proposal is shaped as two concentric circles, symbolizing an ecosystem with both top-down and bottom-up elements. The top-down element operates like a bicameral legislature for standardization agreements under the United Nations' control. It is based on the concept of standardization agreements as defined in EU and US antitrust law and World Trade Organization law as default rules. The bottom-up element draws inspiration from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and functions as a pledge and review system.

The proposal aims to achieve institutional integration in the ITR by promoting clustering, repeated games, and logrolling involving all stakeholders. It also aims to ensure a fair balance of competing interests, decision-making balancing consensus and voting, and independent outcome feedback. The proposed two-concentric circle ecosystem is intended to function as the UN agora for the global North and South in international taxation. The theoretical framework is based on a two-sided platform perspective, encompassing antitrust and international law concepts.

Funder Statement

LSE

Suggested Citation:

Baistrocchi, Eduardo A., Reimagining Global Tax Governance: A Two-sided Platform Perspective (September 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4959761
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies