Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Foreign Property in Japanese Inheritance Tax Law: Uniform or Unique

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-09

18 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Yuya Suzuki

GRADUATE INSTITUTE FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES

Date Written: September 18, 2024

Abstract

This paper presented Japanese experience in evaluating properties outside of Japan and analyzed it in light of Japanese inheritance tax law. The Japanese tax system uses market value as an evaluation principle. Instead of laws, the detailed circular mentions tax practices for reaching this value. This circular seeks to provide a uniform evaluation of the property. Prior to its amendment in 2000, the circular was viewed as irrelevant to foreign property, and market value was considered the controlling principle in light of tax legislation. Following the amendment, the newly introduced practice replaced the previous position, and the circular was characterized as providing practices of foreign property. However, it was acknowledged that totally domestic situations differed from foreign ones. For example, there is no information about housing lands. This is why the circular’s application is limited to mutatis mutandis. For example, one of the new practices is to adjust the cost basis or alienation price to reflect succession. However, this practice is inappropriate if the basis or price is not based on reliable balance sheet data. A more distinct practice was required. For example, the actual buying and selling prices are investigated, and an expert’s opinion is sought. Although these practices are based on the market value principle of relevant legislation, the circular has always aimed for uniform evaluation. Throughout this paper, we will notice that property evaluation presents a serious dilemma between two different principles.

Keywords: Foreign Property, Inheritance Tax Law, Market Value, Uniform Evaluation, Unique Evaluation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Suzuki, Yuya, Evaluation of Foreign Property in Japanese Inheritance Tax Law: Uniform or Unique (September 18, 2024). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4959748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4959748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
966
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies