Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Income from Cross-Border Services: A Global Normative and Enforcement Approach to Legal Issues and Policy Options

38 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2024 Last revised: 21 Oct 2024

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Sergio Messina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Craig West

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); University of Cape Town

Date Written: September 19, 2024

Abstract

The harmful effect of international juridical double taxation on cross-border services has been acknowledged since the early days of the modern history of tax treaties. However, the complexity of the applicable allocation rules in tax treaties leads to uncertainty and arbitrage by global players, which might deprive countries of the ability to effectively exercise their taxing rights. These issues are particularly visible in the case of business services, which countries either address through transfer pricing or dedicated services clauses.

Both options might work in several scenarios, but each has some drawbacks.

From a global tax governance perspective, transfer pricing might achieve a more refined outcome without increasing the complexity (and proliferation) of the tax treaty clauses related to services. However, this approach presupposes mobilising significant human and financial resources to operate with the technical capacity that secures its proper functioning. Accordingly, the transfer pricing approach may be proportionate for some countries, but questionable or unsustainable for others, which might bear an excessive cost if compared with the potential returns in terms of tax revenue. Therefore, a policy dilemma arises as to whether the correct approach to resolve such issues should be addressed at the normative or enforcement level or involve a combination of both. Should transfer pricing be the better solution, its consideration as a solution is further complicated by the issue of (i) whether taxation of income from cross-border services might just demand capacity-building in developing countries, and at their expense, to enhance the collection of the tax in line with the global transfer pricing standards, or (ii) whether global tax governance goals in this field ought to be pursued with a stronger financial contribution by developed countries.

Keywords: Cross-border services, International Tax, United Nations Model Convention, OECD Model Convention, Business income, Income Tax, Tax Policy, Transfer Pricing, Withholding Tax

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Messina, Sergio and Turina, Alessandro and West, Craig, Taxation of Income from Cross-Border Services: A Global Normative and Enforcement Approach to Legal Issues and Policy Options (September 19, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4964434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4964434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C Cadestin , S Miroudot
Central Product Classification Version 2.1
OECD Trade Policy Papers , volume 236 Posted: 2015
H.-Th Von Spankeren
Combinations of Goods and Services and Their Treatment under World Trade Organization (WTO) Law
World Customs Journal , volume 16 , issue 1 Posted: 2022-03
See Robert , W Staiger
On the implications of digital technologies for the multilateral trading system
World Trade Report 2018: The future of world trade How digital technologies are transforming global commerce , p. 150 - 157
concerning the tariff treatment of Local Area Network ("LAN") equipment and personal computers with multimedia capability
PCs with multimedia capability"). Appellate Body Report, China -Measures Affecting Trading Rights and Distribution Services for Certain Publications and Audiovisual Entertainment Products Posted: 1998-06-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
RANK
217,471
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies