Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Apple's Case: State aid concerning the (mis)allocation of profits to Irish PEs Opinion Statement ECJ-TF 2/2024 on the decision of the CJEU of 10 September 2024 in Joined Cases C-465/20 P, Commission v Ireland and Others

13 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Georg Kofler

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Francisco Alfredo Garcia Prats

Universitat de València

Werner C. Haslehner

Universite du Luxembourg

Aleksandar Ivanovski

Independent

Eric Kemmeren

Tilburg Law School; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Michael Lang

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christiana HJI Panayi

Queen Mary University of London, School of Law

Stella Raventos-Calvo

Asociación Española de Asesores Fiscales (AEDAF)

Isabelle Richelle

HEC-Management School of the University of Liège

Alexander Rust

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

This is an Opinion Statement prepared by the CFE ECJ Task Force  on the Commission v Ireland (Apple) case (hereinafter: the "Apple Case"), in which the Court of Justice of the EU (Grand Chamber) delivered its decision on 10 September 2024.

The Apple case concerns the question of whether tax rulings issued by the Irish tax administration to Irish incorporated but non-resident companies that form part of the Apple Group are compatible with EU rules on State aid and, in particular, if the General Court's holding that the Commission had failed to prove to the required standard that such aid had indeed been granted, was legally correct.

The Court set aside the General Court judgment of 15 July 2020, which had annulled the European Commission findings of State aid. The CJEU's Grand Chamber found that the General Court made errors in its understanding of the Commission's decision  that led it to wrongly conclude that the Commission had failed to demonstrate that the tax rulings led to favourable tax treatment of the non-resident entities in comparison to non-integrated standalone companies and other companies dealing at arm's length. In reaching this result, the Grand Chamber judgment follows the Opinion of AG Pitruzzella delivered on 9 November 2023.

Rather than referring the case back to the General Court for reconsideration, as the AG had recommended, the Court decided to render a final judgment on the validity of the Commission decision, reinstating it in full.

This Opinion Statement seeks to explain and analyse the CJEU's reasoning both with respect to the annulment of the General Court's judgment and its final ruling on the granting of illegal state aid to the Apple Group.

Keywords: Apple Case, CFE ECJ Task Force, Tax, EU Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and Kofler, Georg and Garcia Prats, Francisco Alfredo and Haslehner, Werner Christof and Ivanovski, Aleksandar and Kemmeren, Eric and Lang, Michael and HJI Panayi, Christiana and Raventos-Calvo, Stella and Richelle, Isabelle and Rust, Alexander, Apple's Case: State aid concerning the (mis)allocation of profits to Irish PEs Opinion Statement ECJ-TF 2/2024 on the decision of the CJEU of 10 September 2024 in Joined Cases C-465/20 P, Commission v Ireland and Others (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4967544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4967544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
EC Decision EU , p. 369 - 403 Posted: 1283
General Court, T-778/16 and T-892/16, Ireland and Others v Commission
Cfe Ecj , Task Force
Opinion Statement ECJ-TF 3/2020 on the General Court Decisions of 15 July 2020 in Ireland v. Commission and Apple v. Commission (Joined Cases T-778/16 and T-892/16) on State Aid Granted under Tax Rulings Fixing the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments in Ireland
Journal Articles & Opinion Pieces IBFD , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 109 - 116 Posted: 2021
C-465/20 P, supra n. 2, paras , p. 117 - 132
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,405
RANK
246,365
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies