Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Noise and Taxes: The Effect of Industry Noise on the Value of Tax Savings

50 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2024 Last revised: 17 Jan 2025

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Xiao Song

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Mike Yuan

University of Nebraska at Omaha

Date Written: September 26, 2024

Abstract

We examine how variability in tax outcomes within industries (which we refer to as industry noise) affects the marginal value of cash tax savings. We predict and find that industry noise lowers shareholders' value on an additional dollar of tax savings. We also find that the negative effect of industry noise on the marginal value of tax savings is more pronounced when the focal firm's tax outcomes are more volatile or less effective. Finally, we observe that the negative effect of industry noise on the marginal value of cash tax savings is stronger for firms with greater potential agency conflicts between managers and shareholders. Overall, our results reveal that industry noise directly influences investor valuation of tax savings.

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Omer, Thomas C. and Song, Xiao and Yuan, Mike, Noise and Taxes: The Effect of Industry Noise on the Value of Tax Savings (September 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4968455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4968455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
631
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies