Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Neutrality and Distribution Regimes

Garabarino, C. (Ed.), Pillar Two of the Inclusive Framework on BEPS, Edward Elgar, 2024. (forthcoming)

46 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2024

Pablo Hernández González-Barreda

Comillas Pontifical University

Date Written: September 29, 2024

Abstract

Article 7 of Minimum Tax Model Rules deals with minimum tax cases where the UPE applies special tax regimes such as flow-through, deduction or distribution regimes. The provision solves three main issues arising from such cases. On the one hand it guarantees the effectiveness of minimum tax as a policy in these cases that may open loopholes in minimum taxation. On the other hand, if UPE is fully applied without any further condition to flow-through or distribution entities, it may lead to multiple taxation, exceeding minimum tax objectives and deriving in distortions. Last, these tax regimes may lead to inconsistencies across countries as refers to their qualification as allocating income to shareholders, entities or both, what it terms of Pillar 2 may lead to inconsistent results as to whom to allocate income and taxes for purposes of calculating GloBE income and ACT5 . Article 7 guarantees there are no loopholes nor multiple taxation or improper application of minimum taxation, nor mismatches in cases of UPEs being Flow-through Entities, such UPEs being subject to deductible dividend regimes, units of the group subject to eligible distribution regimes or special investment entities regimes. This paper analysis the content of article 7 of Pillar 2 Model Rules, as well as the remaining questions, inconsistencies and future options.

Keywords: Minimum tax, Pillar 2, Inclusive Framework, GlOBE, OECD, Neutrality regimes, distribution regimes, dividends, cooperatives, flow-through entities, financial entities

JEL Classification: K33, K34, H25, H26, H30

Suggested Citation:

Hernández González-Barreda, Pablo, Tax Neutrality and Distribution Regimes (September 29, 2024). Garabarino, C. (Ed.), Pillar Two of the Inclusive Framework on BEPS, Edward Elgar, 2024. (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Investment Entity" in ibid 10.1. 197 "Investment Fund
Letter (a) of "Investment Fund
Oecd
Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy -Commentary to the Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)
Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy -Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two): Inclusive Framework on BEPS
Letter (b) of"Investment Fund" in OECD , p. 10 - 11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
718
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,688
RANK
81,927
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies