Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing the Multilateral Instrument in Spain

Posted: 1 Oct 2024

Pablo Hernández González-Barreda

Comillas Pontifical University

Date Written: May 24, 2021

Abstract

Action 15 of the BEPS Project “The Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” – the Multilateral Instru­ment (MLI) – is a multilateral convention that swiftly modifies the application of exist­ing bilateral tax treaties without the need to renegotiate each treaty individually. It does not replace the existing tax treaties but rather modifies their application with the aim to reduce the opportunities for tax avoidance by multinational enterprises, counter treaty abuse and improve the dispute resolution mechanism, providing flexibility according to the different treaty policies and positions chosen by countries. The MLI was finalized in November 2016, and a first signing ceremony was held in Paris on 6 June 2017. A total of 76 jurisdictions signed it at this first ceremony. In the meantime, it has grown to cover almost 100 jurisdictions. The aim of this book is to provide tax authorities, policymakers, courts and practitioners with an overview of the countries’ positions and experiences re­garding the impact of the MLI on their tax treaty network, as well as other issues on the implementation of the convention with respect to policy options, reservations, and legal and constitutional concerns.

The book comprises 34 national reports from countries across the globe and is the out­come of an alternative non-physical interaction between national reporters and authors. This was due to the special COVID-19 situation lived during 2020, serving as a substitute for the prepared conference on the MLI that should have taken place from 2 to 4 July 2020 in Rust, Burgenland, Austria. A general report highlights the most important findings.

Keywords: Multilateral Instrument, BEPS, Base Erosion, Profit Shifting, Spain, Principal Purpose Test, Limitation on Benefits, Dividend Stripping, Permanent Establishment, OECD

JEL Classification: K33, K34, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Hernández González-Barreda, Pablo, Implementing the Multilateral Instrument in Spain (May 24, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971060
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
147
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies