Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Implications of Tax Securitization Transactions in India

JSS Journal for Legal Studies and Research, vol. 10 (1) (2024), pp. 1-20

20 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2024

Jackson Simango Magoge

National Institute of Transport (NIT); NALSAR University of Law

Date Written: September 29, 2024

Abstract

One of the most recent tactics to hit the financial markets in India is debt or asset securitization. Under asset securitization, a financial institution pools and packages individual loans and receivables creates securities against them, gets them rated, and sells them to the investors in the market, while the transactions involved during securitization attract taxation. Taxation issues surrounding securitization transactions have not been clearly clarified in the relevant tax laws in so far as regulations of securitizations are concerned (i.e., securitization transactions governed by RBI regulations or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the capital markets regulator). For instance, a lack of clarity in taxation provisions with respect to investment in the Security receipt (SRs) issued by the Asset Reconstruction Company (ARCs) is among the challenges. Moreover, Under the income-tax law, no specific tax rate is mentioned for the taxability of interest income or upside received by FPIs from their investment in the SRs. Thus, this study is a normative legal study that employs normative methods and looks for the provisions regarding the taxation of securitization transactions and its legal implications under Indian taxation regimes. Whereas provisions of tax statutes like the Income Tax Act and Stamp Duty Act are examined and analyzed in relation to other laws that govern securitization in India.

Keywords: Taxation of Securitization transactions, Asset Reconstruction Company, securitization trust, Income tax, Special-purpose Vehicle, investors, financial institutions

JEL Classification: K34, E5, G2, G3, G1

Suggested Citation:

Magoge, Jackson Simango, Legal Implications of Tax Securitization Transactions in India (September 29, 2024). JSS Journal for Legal Studies and Research, vol. 10 (1) (2024), pp. 1-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Chaturvedi & Pithisaria's: Income Tax Law , volume 7 Posted: 2020
Michael ; Davies , Jacob Gyntelberg , Eric Chan
Housing finance agencies in Asia
Monetary and Economic Department Posted: 2017
Frederick Feldkamp in Securitisation: The Alchemist's Dream; International Financial Law Review Posted: 2000
Securitization in India: Managing Capital Constraints and Creating Liquidity to Fund Infrastructure Assets Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
RANK
439,313
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies