Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The U.N. Framework Tax Convention: Can It Bridge the North-South Divide?

Tax Notes International, Volume 115, Number 12, p. 1779, September 2024

4 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2024

Assaf Harpaz

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

The United Nations recently concluded the second session of negotiations on terms of reference for a framework convention on international tax cooperation. The framework convention presents an opportunity to multilaterally address pressing global tax issues. Its goal is to “strengthen international tax cooperation and make it fully inclusive and more effective.”

The extensively negotiated terms of reference make several substantive commitments, including the fair allocation of taxing rights; tax evasion and avoidance by high-net worth individuals; sustainable development; mutual administrative assistance in tax matters; tax-related illicit financial flows; and prevention and resolution of tax disputes.

The ongoing multilateral effort brings the promise of a more equitable international tax regime. However, support for the U.N.’s work and the substantive issues identified has been sharply divided along global north-south lines. A successful U.N. process will need to acquire legitimacy from both the developed superpowers and the developing countries that have historically been excluded from international tax policymaking decisions.

The article explains the key issues being addressed in the U.N. framework convention on international tax cooperation, including the global north-south divide and its role in the multilateral process.

Keywords: tax, taxation, international taxation, global tax, tax reform, United Nations, UN, U.N., OECD, Tax reform, framework convention, convention on international tax cooperation, Global north, Global South, digital taxation, taxation of the digital economy, digital economy, digital tax, human rights, tax disputes, wealth tax, wealth taxation, high net woth individuals, international cooperation, international tax policy, inclusive taxation, international cooperation, multilateral, multilateral conventions, multilateral negotiations, tax treaties, tax avoidance, United Nations Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation, tax policy, tax fairness, developed, developing

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Harpaz, Assaf, The U.N. Framework Tax Convention: Can It Bridge the North-South Divide? (September 16, 2024). Tax Notes International, Volume 115, Number 12, p. 1779, September 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Eileen Travers
Why the World Needs a U.N. Global Tax Convention
United Nations Posted: 2024-08-16
Arthur Cockfield
The Rise of the OECD as Informal 'World Tax Organization' Through National Responses to E-Commerce Tax Challenges
Yale J.L. & Tech , volume 136 Posted: 2006
Assaf Harpaz
International Tax Reform: Who Gets a Seat at the Table?" 44 U
PA. J. Int'l L , volume 1007 , p. 1051 - 1052 Posted: 2023
Oecd
Members and Partners , volume 25 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
910
RANK
361,062
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies