Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Service Quality and Tax Compliance among Small and Medium Enterprises in North Rift Economic Block, Kenya: A Moderated Mediation Model of Government Trust and Social Value Orientation

14 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2024

Daniel Kirui

Moi University

Collins Kapkiyai

Moi University

Amos Kipruto

Moi University

Date Written: July 20, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: This study examined the moderated mediation effect of social value orientation and government trust on the relationship between tax service quality and tax compliance among small and medium enterprises (SMEs).

Methodology: Guided by a positivist research philosophy and explanatory design, the study sampled 393 SME owners/managers from a target population of 21,232 registered SMEs using a stratified sampling technique. Data was collected using a self-administered questionnaire, with the reliability and validity confirmed through Cronbach’s alpha coefficient of 0.7 and factor analysis. Data analysis involved descriptive and inferential statistics and multiple regression analysis using Andrew Hayes Process macro.

Findings: The results indicate that tax service quality, government trust, and social value orientation had a significant positive effect on tax compliance. Tax service quality significantly influenced government trust which mediated the relationship between tax service quality and tax compliance. Social value orientation moderated the nexus between tax service quality and tax compliance, government trust and tax compliance, and the indirect relationship between tax service quality and tax compliance via government trust. The conditional effects were stronger at higher levels of social value orientation.

Practical Implications: Enhancing tax service quality and fostering government trust are crucial strategies for improving tax compliance among SMEs. Moreover, incorporating social value orientation in tax policy design is vital for optimizing revenue collection.

Originality: This study provides new insights into the interplay between tax service quality, government trust, and social value orientation, offering a comprehensive understanding of their impact on tax compliance within the SME sector.

Keywords: Tax compliance, tax service quality, government trust, social value orientation

Suggested Citation:

Kirui, Daniel and Kapkiyai, Collins and Kipruto, Amos, Tax Service Quality and Tax Compliance among Small and Medium Enterprises in North Rift Economic Block, Kenya: A Moderated Mediation Model of Government Trust and Social Value Orientation (July 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
R Dom , A Custers , S Davenport , W Prichard
Innovations in tax compliance: Building trust, navigating politics, and tailoring reform Posted: 2022
M Stewart
Tax and Government in the 21st Century Posted: 2022
C M Weible
Portraying the structure and evolution of polycentricity via policymaking venues
International Journal of the Commons , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 680 - 691 Posted: 2020
K Stark , S Smulders
Compliance Costs Matter-The Case of South African Individual Taxpayers
eJTR , volume 16 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
467,335
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies