Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Digital, What's Next?

7 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2024

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: September 24, 2024

Abstract

The manner in which we tax large companies on their investment returns has been a topic that is in the societal spotlight for quite some time now. There is a lot going on, and it is even more than the eye-catching Apple State Aid ruling of the Court of Justice of the EU of 10 September 2024, where the Court upheld the 2016 Commission decision that the famous tech company had to repay Ireland a staggering amount of 13 billion euros worth of State Aid provided by the country to the company. After the silent collapse of Pillar One earlier this summer, as it now seems, the question as to what’s next seems to be moving up business agendas and political agendas. To answering this question, this paper explores some of the backgrounds and political and policy considerations that have been driving some of the large-scale developments and winds of change that we see around us in the company tax landscape, in recent years and up to and including today. As a side note the paper briefly assesses why it is precisely those internet companies that have taken center stage in the multinational company tax debate. The explorations culminate in a call for some renewed thinking on company tax reform, that is, by seeking a tax-equilibrium through competition rather than through coordination.

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris, Taxing Digital, What's Next? (September 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4971048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4971048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
RANK
584,242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies