Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Willingness to Pay Local Business Tax - The Impact of Trust and Public Goods

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 158

54 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024 Last revised: 17 Apr 2025

Henning Giese

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Vanessa Heinemann-Heile

Paderborn University

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

This study analyzes whether and to what extent firms’ satisfaction with the provision of public goods and their trust in local governments’ handling of local business tax revenues are associated with their willingness to pay local business taxes. Using survey data on German small- and medium-sized firms, we find no significant association between firms’ overall satisfaction with the provision of public goods and their willingness to pay local business taxes. However, when distinguishing between personal- and business-related public goods, we find that satisfaction with public goods related to the personal sphere of firms’ decision-makers is associated with an increase in firms’ willingness to pay local business tax by about 6%. We observe no similar link for the actual provision of public goods. In contrast, trust in local governments’ handling of local business tax revenues is significantly associated with higher firms’ willingness to pay, with an effect size about twice as large as for satisfaction with personal-related public goods. Further, we document that higher average willingness to pay local business tax within a municipality is associated with a 13% reduction in tax avoidance. These findings underscore the critical role of transparent tax revenue management and trust-building in promoting tax compliance, offering actionable insights for local governments aiming to optimize tax collection and resource allocation.

Keywords: Tax Perception, Business Taxation, Tax Avoidance, Public Goods, Tax Revenue

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H41, H71, D91

Suggested Citation:

Giese, Henning and Heinemann-Heile, Vanessa, Firms' Willingness to Pay Local Business Tax - The Impact of Trust and Public Goods (October 01, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 158, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4972829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4972829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee , J Slemrod
Deterrence and beyond: Toward a kinder, gentler IRS
Why do people pay taxes , p. 311 - 329 Posted: 1992
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee
Estimating the determinants of taxpayer compliance with experimental data
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 1992
J Alm , G H Mcclelland , W D Schulze
Why do people pay taxes
Journal of Public Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
551
RANK
605,632
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies