Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Consequences of Employee Turnover on Organizational Performance, a Case Study in Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA)

31 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2024

Daniel Appiah

University of Professional Studies, Accra (UPSA)

Horsu Isaac

University of Professional Studies, Accra (UPSA)

Kenneth Larbi

University of Professional Studies, Accra (UPSA)

Date Written: May 08, 2024

Abstract

We the undersigned do hereby declare that this dissertation is the result of our own original research towards our Diploma in Management program and that, to the best of our knowledge; no part of it has been previously published by another person or contains a material, which has been accepted for the award of another diploma of any university. However, all sources of borrowed materials have been duly acknowledged.

Suggested Citation:

Appiah, Daniel and Isaac, Horsu and Larbi, Kenneth, Assessing the Consequences of Employee Turnover on Organizational Performance, a Case Study in Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) (May 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4975463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4975463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
|| Ghana Revenue Authority ||
Egovonline.gegov.gov.gh. Retrieved Posted: 2019-03-24
P W Hom , R Griffeth
Employee turnover Posted: 1995
M M Kevin , L C Joan , J W Adrian
Organizational change and employee turnover
Personnel Rev , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 166 Posted: 2004
S Kumar
A manual of sampling techniques , p. 15 - 30 Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
730,413
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies