Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Need for Income Sourcing Changes

Reprinted from Tax Notes Federal, September 2, 2024, p. 1861

5 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: September 02, 2024

Abstract

The UF Tax Incubator, a group of primarily tax advisors of major law and accounting firms and some in-house tax professionals, all of whom have to some extent an agenda to help their multinational clients and employers, have issued a series of recommendations on possible tax law changes. In their July 2024 Tax Notes Federal paper, Considerations for Reforming the U.S. Source of Income Rules, they made a number of suggestions that would encourage and help secure their profit-shifting structures.

In this paper, I indicate this group's seriously problematic recommendations and provide either specific reasons why they are problematic and/or references to prior papers and other documents that recommend specifically what should be done to improve the U.S. source rules so that profit-shifting structures are curtailed and profits get taxed in alignment with real economic activity.

Keywords: source, source of income, International Taxation, Profit Shifting, BEPS

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., The Need for Income Sourcing Changes (September 02, 2024). Reprinted from Tax Notes Federal, September 2, 2024, p. 1861, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4980144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4980144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
262
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies