Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking through Trusts

Forthcoming in the Osgoode Hall Law Journal

Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4981926

29 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2024 Last revised: 12 Oct 2024

Adam S. Hofri-Winogradow

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Mark J. Bennett

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 09, 2024

Abstract

As everyone knows, trusts are often used to avoid or subvert different rules of law. To combat such avoidance, jurisdictions enacted anti-avoidance rules; yet many of these rules do not fully prevent trusts-based avoidance, or in some cases reflect some jurisdictions' acceptance of such avoidance. We review the anti-avoidance rules applied by Canada, the US, the UK, Australia and New Zealand to try and stymie trusts-based avoidance in three subject areas: distribution of family property on divorce or separation, taxation of income accrued in settlor-controlled trusts, and means-tested eligibility for welfare benefits. We find that antiavoidance doctrines are often less than fully effective in tackling liability or means testing avoidance by way of discretionary trusts, and offer recommendations to improve the treatment of such trusts for anti-avoidance purposes.

Keywords: trusts, look-through, avoidance, welfare, tax, tax planning, relationship property, marital property, benefits, Henson trusts

Suggested Citation:

Hofri-Winogradow, Adam S. and Bennett, Mark J., Looking through Trusts (October 09, 2024). Forthcoming in the Osgoode Hall Law Journal, Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4981926, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4981926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4981926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
154 References
Hanoch Dagan , Irit Samet , Simone Degeling , Jessica Hudson , Irit Samet
Dagan and Samet's examination of trust law's liberal foundations builds on Dagan's work on liberal property theory: Hanoch Dagan
Philosophical Foundations of the Law of Trusts Posted: 2021
Hanoch Dagan , Chris Bevan
Hanoch Dagan 'Liberal Property Theory
Research Handbook on Private Law Theory Posted: 2020
James Cf , Penner
Property and Self-Determination: Critical notice of Hanoch Dagan, A Liberal Theory of Property' (2022) 35 Can JL & Jur 537. And see also Ying Khai Liew 'Justifying Anglo-American Trusts Law Posted: 2021
Mary Wm
Bus L Rev , volume 685
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
RANK
244,564
154 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies