Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Speculative Crypto-Assets and VAT: Why it is (almost) all exempt

11 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024

Fabian Barth

University of Lapland

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

Following the judgment Hedqvist in 2015, it appeared settled that cryptocurrencies fall within the same VAT exemption as their more traditional counterparts. Discussions however have recently emerged around Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), for which an exemption appears not to be in reach. The article argues that a re-evaluation is now necessary. Most crypto-assets have proven themselves to be useful, and in fact used, predominantly for speculative purposes only, i.e., as high risk investments which might generate significant returns or losses. As such, the paper argues that cryptocurrencies and other volatile NFTs should be placed on the same footing, and discusses whether they are not in fact properly classified as "other securities".

Keywords: VAT, Crypto, Bitcoin, Ethereum, NFT, Exemption, Financial Services

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Fabian, Speculative Crypto-Assets and VAT: Why it is (almost) all exempt (December 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4981310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4981310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
See for example CJEU Baštová
If necessary, one might even regard all of them as a composite supply -CJEU Mydibel. (C-201/18), para 41 being authority for the proposition that transactions which are not strictly from one party to the other can still form one single supply
CJEU CSC Financial Services
Illuminating is in that regard also a look into other language versions of Article 135(1) -the German term "Vermittlung
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
RANK
834,175
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies