Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
False Idols in the Early History of International Taxation

27 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2024 Last revised: 26 Nov 2024

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Date Written: October 14, 2024

Abstract

A careful reading of recent scholarship on the early history of international taxation, especially on the League of Nations' work on "double taxation," ought to have dislodged many myths about this history. But more often than not, such scholarship has been taken to offer mere details without altering our fundamental understanding. This paper suggests that this reception reflects a longstanding pattern in discourses about international taxation: participants perpetuate or cling onto narratives that are easily seen to be false. 



The paper exposes this pattern by summarizing evidence for four rarely-acknowledged conclusions about the League's output on international taxation. First, rather than advancing any agreed proposal, the 1923 "Four Economists Report" reflected fundamental disagreements (in both theory and practice) between the world's then two leading capital exporters, the U.S. and Britain. Second, the League's 1925 Technical Experts Report substantially changed the topic from the Four Economists Report. By focusing on coordination conventions among countries imposing only source-based taxation, it offered little of interest to the U.S. and Britain, and rendered international agreement even more difficult by conflating distinct policy issues. Meanwhile, it launched an institutional narrative that, whatever the problems of international taxation were, the League offered relevant solutions. Third, this narrative began to allow lobbyists like Mitchell Carroll to advance business interests under the League's disguise in the 1930s. Fourth, by the time of the Mexico Model, "the League's" double taxation work served little purpose than narrow institutional and personal interests. 


In each of these last three stages of the League's work, despite the lack of genuine intellectual continuity, parties appealed to earlier League outputs to legitimize their own (often questionable) pursuits. This practice continued in the activities of the Organisation for European Economic Cooperation in the 1950s, and one suspects that it is even more significant today. The paper suggests that the durability of this practice may be attributable to both ambiguous principal-agent relationships in the context of weak international organizations sponsoring informal norm setting, and persistent intellectual confusion about the subject of international taxation.

Keywords: double taxation, Four Economists Report, international taxation, League of Nations, Mexico Model, OECD, tax treaties

Funder Statement

This paper forms a part of a research project funded by a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Insight Grant (No. 435-2022-0484).

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, False Idols in the Early History of International Taxation (October 14, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4986995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4986995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Vann
Origins of the OEEC Work on Tax Treaties: Continuity or Fresh Start
Bulletin for International Taxation , volume 76 , issue 9 , p. 435 - 437 Posted: 2022
Ibid
Hearson
A gathering of international chatterers for the purpose of chattering
The Swiss proposal, however, was based on concerns about double taxation in indirect taxes, which were never addressed by the OEEC's subsequent work on a Model Convention
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
RANK
138,716
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies