Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Complexity and Foreign Direct Investment

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 160

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-10

70 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2024 Last revised: 17 Jul 2025

Isabell Euler

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München

Simon Harst

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

Date Written: October 17, 2024

Abstract

Countries increasingly use their tax policies to compete for foreign direct investment (FDI). However, national and international tax reforms often complicate tax laws and regulations, which may discourage investment. We use a nuanced measure of corporate tax complexity and a Poisson estimation with high-dimensional fixed effects to examine the impact of both complexity in the tax regulations (code complexity) and in the legislative, administrative, and judicial tax procedures (framework complexity) on FDI. We find that tax complexity may impose cost or confer benefits. That is, we show that framework complexity deters investment. In contrast and counterintuitive at first glance, we find that code complexity can offer benefits and attract FDI on average. Further analysis reveals that framework complexity hardly affects multinationals with substantial cross-border investments as well as firms with a history of international presence or exposure to tax havens, but it does disadvantage small and medium-sized firms. The benefits of code complexity also vary across firms, with manufacturers benefiting the least. Taken together, our results suggest that it is the complexity of the tax framework that primarily reduces a country’s attractiveness for FDI, underscoring the importance of simplification of and certainty in tax procedures.

Keywords: foreign direct investment, FDI, location decision, tax complexity, compliance cost, tax planning, real effects, business taxation

JEL Classification: H25, H32, F21, F23

Suggested Citation:

Euler, Isabell and Harst, Simon and Schanz, Deborah and Sureth-Sloane, Caren and Voget, Johannes, Tax Complexity and Foreign Direct Investment (October 17, 2024). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 160, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2024-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4990616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
H Amberger , J Gallemore , J Wilde
Corporate Tax System Complexity and Investment Sensitivity to Tax Policy Changes
, issue 11 , p. 1 - 64 Posted: 2023
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate Governance, Incentives, and Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser
Does Tax Complexity Discourage Entrepreneurship? Working Paper , p. 1 - 54 Posted: 2025
E Asen
Survey Shows Growing Tax Complexity for Multinationals Posted: 2021
Load more
2 Citations
The Effect of Corporate ESG Management on Tax Benefits and Corporate Performance—Findings from South Korea
Journal of Sustainability Research , volume 7 , issue 4 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Jannis Bischof , Joachim Gassen , Anna Rohlfing-Bastian , Davud Rostam-Afschar , Caren Sureth-Sloane
Accounting for Transparency: a Framework and Three Applications in Tax, Managerial, and Financial Accounting
Schmalenbach Journal of Business Research , volume 76 , issue 4 , p. 573 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
147,517
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies