Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Insolvency: Towards a Foundational Understanding 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, Annual Publication (2024)

22 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2024

M. P. Ram Mohan

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Sai Muralidhar K

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

Taxation and insolvency laws, as critical economic legislations, play a key role in regulating economic activities. This article aims to chart a path toward understanding the source of the divergences between these two fields at a foundational level by examining their theoretical roots. The theoretical foundations of tax law that have formed the current principles of taxation have been examined against the backdrop of the creditor's bargain and communitarian theories of insolvency. In India, the right of the State to tax corporations and individuals is espoused by the Constitution of India. This right is examined against the broader objectives of India’s Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC/Code). In the last few years, there have been several cases in India, specifically on tax disputes during the insolvency resolution process. Examining the theoretical interplay between tax and insolvency enables us to see how insolvency and taxation laws could synergise and create positive outcomes for stakeholders. 

Keywords: Insolvency and Tax, Communitarian Theory, Creditors Bargain Theory

Suggested Citation:

M. P., Ram Mohan and K, Sai Muralidhar, Taxation and Insolvency: Towards a Foundational Understanding  (October 01, 2024). Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, Annual Publication (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4990632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Central Goods and Services Tax Act Posted: 2016
Government Taxes , World Revenue , Bank
Posted: 2024-06-12
Imf
How Can an Excessive Volume of Tax Disputes Be Dealt With? Posted: 2024-06-24
Tax Department Sets Strict Targets to Resolve Appeals: Sources, CNBCTV , volume 18 Posted: 2024-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
653,956
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies