Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax System Design, Tax Reform, and Labor Supply

CESifo Working Paper No. 11350

70 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2024

Katharina Pfeil

Walter Eucken Institute; University of Freiburg

Matthias Kasper

Walter Eucken Institute

Sarah Necker

Ludwig Erhard ifo Center for Social Market Economy and Institutional Economics

Lars P. Feld

Walter Eucken Institute; University of Freiburg - College of Economics and Behavioral Sciences; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

This study examines how tax system design and reform affect labor supply. We conduct an online experiment with 522 participants to assess labor responses to tax reforms that introduce or remove a notch, affecting after-tax income at either the lower or upper end of the income distribution. Our findings indicate asymmetric responses to tax reform as well as substantial heterogeneity at the individual level. In particular, we find an increase in labor supply in response to a tax reform only when the reform reduces the tax burden at the upper end of the income distribution. While, in the aggregate, labor supply adjusts on the extensive and intensive margins, we also find strong evidence of heterogeneity in individual responses, showing that the labor response is primarily driven by individuals directly affected by the reform. We examine the role of misperceptions at the individual level as well as fairness considerations in explaining these results.

Keywords: tax system design, tax reform, notches, labor supply, online experiment

JEL Classification: J200, J220, H240, H300, C910

Suggested Citation:

Pfeil, Katharina and Kasper, Matthias and Necker, Sarah and Feld, Lars P., Tax System Design, Tax Reform, and Labor Supply (2024). CESifo Working Paper No. 11350, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4991898 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4991898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Abeler , A Falk , L Goette , D Huffman
Reference points and effort provision
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
J Abeler , S Jäger
Complex Tax Incentives
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015
S Agarwal , C Liu , N S Souleles
The Reaction of Consumer Spending and Debt to Tax Rebates-Evidence from Consumer Credit Data
Journal of Political Economy , volume 115 , issue 6 , p. 986 - 1019 Posted: 2007
H J Amberger , E Eberhartinger , M Kasper
Tax-Rate Biases in Tax Decisions: Experimental Evidence
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
614,410
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies