Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Responses to Wealth Taxation: Evidence from a Norwegian Reform

CESifo Working Paper No. 11335

49 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2024

Roberto Iacono

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU); NTNU

Bård Smedsvik

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2024

Abstract

How do wealthy individuals respond to wealth tax reforms? We analyse behavioral responses to intensive margin variation in wealth tax rates, estimating the causal effects of an unprecedented municipal wealth tax reform in Norway. We leverage variation from the single-period municipal reform reducing the marginal tax rate (MTR) on wealth exclusively in the northern Norwegian municipality of Bo from 0.85% to 0.35%, since 2021. Mimicking the behaviour of a tax haven, Bo represents the first municipality in Norway to unilaterally reduce the municipal wealth tax rate since 1978. We document a significant 60% increase in average taxable wealth in response to a 1 percentage point drop in the wealth tax rate. The elasticity of taxable wealth increases to 68.7% when focusing exclusively on wealth taxpayers. We also estimate a significant but more modest 10% jump in the weighted mass of wealth taxpayers in the treated municipality. Migration effects of the reform dominate: internal mobility of wealthy taxpayers appears as the major behavioral response to the change in the net tax rate, accounting for a large portion of the post-treatment total net wealth in the treated municipality. While these effects are pronounced at the municipal level, they do not suggest a large-scale exodus at the national level, indicating that migration to avoid wealth taxation is not necessarily an inevitable outcome of localized preferential tax regimes. These results emerge in a context of third-party reported wealth data with minimal measurement error, limited evidence of bunching, highly enforced residence-based wealth taxation, and negligible out-migration rates.

Keywords: wealth taxation, behavioral responses, tax avoidance, migration

JEL Classification: H200, H210, H240, H260

Suggested Citation:

Iacono, Roberto and Smedsvik, Bård, Behavioral Responses to Wealth Taxation: Evidence from a Norwegian Reform (2024). CESifo Working Paper No. 11335, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4991833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4991833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
A Advani , E Chamberlain , A Summers
A wealth tax for the UK: Frequently Asked Questions Posted: 2021
A Advani , H Hughson , A Summers
How much tax do the rich really pay? Evidence from the UK
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 406 - 437 Posted: 2023
A Advani , H Tarrant
Behavioural responses to a wealth tax
Fiscal Studies , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 509 - 537 Posted: 2021
D R Agrawal
Hidden Havens: State and Local Governments as Tax Havens? Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Edison Jakurti
A Tale of Two Rates: Return on Capital, Economic Growth, and Wealth Concentration in the Long Run
Review of Political Economy , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,153
RANK
195,815
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies