Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do tax courts affect tax compliance and tax audits? A game-theoretic analysis

51 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Thomas Kourouxous

University of Graz

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Peter Krenn

University of Graz - Center for Accounting Research

Date Written: October 22, 2024

Abstract

We investigate how the possibility to appeal tax audit results in court influences the taxpayer's income declaration and the tax authority's auditing process. We employ a game-theoretic model in which the taxpayer's income declaration may be subject to an audit conducted by a designated auditor on behalf of the tax authority. The taxpayer can challenge audit errors by filing a tax court appeal. We find that in the absence of a tax court, a separating equilibrium with no tax evasion can be achieved if tax audit fees are low and penalties for tax evasion are neither too low nor excessively high. If penalties are too high, taxpayers may overstate their income to avoid arbitrary punishment as a result of a negligent tax audit. The possibility of having erroneous tax audits overturned in court incentivizes the tax auditor to increase audit intensity and avoid negligent tax audits. However, the tax authority may reduce its audit frequency in anticipation of audit results being overturned in court. The overall impact of tax courts depends crucially on the parameter setting. Generally, we can infer that tax evasion cannot be meaningfully curbed if tax audits are prohibitively costly or if audit fees are excessively high.

Keywords: Tax Declaration, Tax Audit, Court Appeal, Game Theory

Suggested Citation:

Kourouxous, Thomas and Niemann, Rainer and Krenn, Peter, How do tax courts affect tax compliance and tax audits? A game-theoretic analysis (October 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4995621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4995621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm
Measuring, Explaining, and Controlling Tax Evasion: Lessons from Theory, Experiments, and Field Studies , volume 19 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
J Alm , A Malézieux
40 Years of Tax Evasion Games: A Meta-Analysis
Experimental Economics , volume 24 , p. 699 - 750 Posted: 2021
J Andreoni , B Erard , J S Feinstein
Tax Compliance , volume 36 , p. 818 - 860 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
RANK
915,095
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies