Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Evidence for the Decision to Retain or Eliminate the Lifo Inventory Method

45 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2024

Qianhua Ling

Marquette University

Daniel Tinkelman

CUNY Brooklyn College

Abstract

The U.S. is unusual in permitting the LIFO method of accounting for inventory for tax and accounting purposes. Proposals are occasionally made to disallow it for both purposes. The continued decline in LIFO usage and the recent recurrence of inflation have made the topic timely.We add to the literature on the possible effects of eliminating the use of LIFO in two major ways. First, we document that prior studies, by relying primarily on reported LIFO reserves and not utilizing deferred tax disclosures, seriously underestimated the total impact and failed to properly identify the companies and industries most affected. Second, we discuss how companies which left LIFO in our 2006-2023 sample period used both the timing of the switch and the choice of alternative method to minimize tax consequences.

Keywords: LIFO, Last-In First-out inventory, inventory methods, Deferred Tax Liabilities, LIFO abandonments

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Qianhua and Tinkelman, Daniel, New Evidence for the Decision to Retain or Eliminate the Lifo Inventory Method. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4996002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4996002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies