Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limitations on Interest Deductibility and Corporate Financial Policy

55 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Michelle Hanlon

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

The Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) disallows tax deductions for interest costs exceeding 30% of profits. Recent studies document either very large or no debt responses. We hypothesize that targeted firms already face strong incentives to de-lever through falling marginal tax benefits (e.g., net operating loss rules) and rising marginal costs (e.g., loan covenants). Consistent with intuition and legislators' assertions that interest exceeding 30% of profits is an indication of overleverage, the firms in our sample reduce debt in response to high interest-to-profit ratios over a 28year period preceding the TCJA. After the TCJA, firms subject to the 30% tax rule reduce debt modestly more than before the TCJA, but only when they have a low need for external financing. We conclude that the limitation on interest deductibility had a modest effect on financing decisions, concentrated in firms in which excess interest plausibly poses the least risk.

Keywords: Capital structure, interest deductions, cash shortfall, tax policy, tax reform

JEL Classification: G32, G33, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Heitzman, Shane and Hanlon, Michelle, Limitations on Interest Deductibility and Corporate Financial Policy (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4999971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4999971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
S Albring
The effects of the cost of foreign internal funds on the probability that a firm issues domestic debt
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 41 Posted: 2006
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
J Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics; An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
M Arena , A Roper
The effect of taxes on multinational debt location
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 5 , p. 634 - 654 Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Marcel Olbert
The impact of tax shields on bankruptcy risk and resource allocation
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
261,451
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies