Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remarks on the Future Prospects of the Oecd/G20 Programme of Work: Profit Allocation (Pillar One) and Minimum Taxation (Pillar Two)

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 6, Pages 338-345

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ulrich Schreiber

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the OECD/G20 programme of work dealing with the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy, highlights the partial abandonment of the arm's length principle, discusses two ways of minimum taxation, evaluates the obstacles to international tax coordination and considers the possible consequences for national tax policy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/cjwvkg

Keywords: BEPS Project (OECD), digital economy, allocation of profits, Pillar 1 (OECD), arm's length principle, Pillar 2 (OECD), global minimum tax, tax sovereignty

Suggested Citation:

Schreiber, Ulrich, Remarks on the Future Prospects of the Oecd/G20 Programme of Work: Profit Allocation (Pillar One) and Minimum Taxation (Pillar Two). Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 6, Pages 338-345, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/cjwvkg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies