Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Measures in Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 7, Pages 386-390

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Albertus Marais

Independent

Abstract

This article sets out the various taxation initiatives that South Africa has introduced in response to the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the primary relief measures: employment tax incentive, tax deferrals, and ancillary relief measures: VAT, skills development levy, deduction of donations for COVID-19 relief measures, deferral of interest limitations, carrying forward of tax losses and other measures. Finally, the author compares the South African measures to other African states.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/37e3qbt

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, domestic tax law, tax relief

Suggested Citation:

Marais, Albertus, Tax Measures in Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 7, Pages 386-390, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/37e3qbt
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
83
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies