Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Provisions of the Cares Act: The International (and Institutional) Implications

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 7

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

H. David Rosenbloom

Independent

P.A. Barnes

Independent

Abstract

This article outlines the measures affecting both corporations and individuals that the United States has adopted in response to domestic and international taxation issues to which the COVID-19 pandemic has given rise. Those measures include announcements by US tax authorities extending time limitations and otherwise providing relief as well as enactment of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economy Security (CARES) Act by the US Congress.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ers1kw

Keywords: tax relief, COVID-19 pandemic, corporate income tax, net operating loss, BEAT, FDII, GILTI, interest deduction, individual income tax, substantial presence test, non-resident alien, working abroad

Suggested Citation:

Rosenbloom, H. David and Barnes, P.A., Tax Provisions of the Cares Act: The International (and Institutional) Implications. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ers1kw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
61
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies