Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 75th Anniversary of the Bulletin for International Taxation: "75 Years of International Taxation: Looking Back and Looking Ahead"

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 514-519

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

Abstract

The author provides an overview of articles in the 75th anniversary special issue of the Bulletin for International Taxation that cover thematically arranged topics prepared by distinguished authors, while he also looks back at the development of the journal and its future.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/yk70we

Keywords: international taxation, history of taxation

Suggested Citation:

Hattingh, Johann, The 75th Anniversary of the Bulletin for International Taxation: "75 Years of International Taxation: Looking Back and Looking Ahead". Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 514-519, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/yk70we
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies