Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exiting from the Obligations of a Tax Treaty: An International Framework with Diverse Practices

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 292-301

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Gabriella Erdős

Independent

G. Czoboly

Independent

Abstract

This article focuses on the intention of states to withdraw from tax treaty obligations, starting with the pre-ratification period and ending with post-treaty obligations. Intentions are reviewed in the light of the general principles of international law, the Vienna Convention (1969), the OECD and UN Models, and in relation to jurisprudence.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1zm7384

Keywords: tax treaty, international law, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, OECD Model, UN Model, case law

Suggested Citation:

Erdős, Gabriella and Czoboly, G., Exiting from the Obligations of a Tax Treaty: An International Framework with Diverse Practices. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 292-301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1zm7384
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies