Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Investment Agreements and the International Tax System: The Potential of Complementarity and Harmonious Interpretation

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 687-703

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Robert J. Danon

Independent

S. Wuschka

Independent

Abstract

In this contribution to the 75th anniversary issue of the Bulletin for International Taxation, Professor Robert Danon and Sebastian Wuschka discuss the interplay between international investment agreements and corporate taxation measures. The authors shed light on the potential of complementarity and harmonious interpretation between the investment treaty regime and the international tax system.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2b5vwg1

Keywords: investment treaty, international taxation, corporate income tax, tax authorities, tax policy, tax treaty, arbitration, dispute resolution, MAP

Suggested Citation:

Danon, Robert J. and Wuschka, S., International Investment Agreements and the International Tax System: The Potential of Complementarity and Harmonious Interpretation. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 687-703, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2b5vwg1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Negotiation & Dispute Resolution eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies