Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deceptive Allure of Taxing "Residual Profits"

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 527-532

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stephen E. Shay

Independent

Abstract

This article outlines the traditional justifications for a residual profits business tax base and evaluates its role in the OECD/G20 Pillar One proposal to allocate income to market countries. The article concludes that basing the allocation of profits to market countries on multinationals' residual profits would be inferior to allocating a portion of total corporate profits.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2drvzjt

Keywords: allocation of profits, tax base, Pillar 1 (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Shay, Stephen E., The Deceptive Allure of Taxing "Residual Profits". Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 527-532, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2drvzjt
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies