Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Italian and International Tax Rules Require a Literal Application of the Value Test Under Article 9(4) of the Mli? Possible Remedies to the Disproportionate Tax Treatment of Capital-Intensive Inbound Investments

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 10, Pages 493-504

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Nicola Catucci

Independent

Abstract

Italy has opted for article 9(4) of the Multilateral Instrument (MLI). Taxpayers will shortly be confronted with the new "immovable properties clause" of article 13(4) of the OECD Model (2017). A literal interpretation of the "immovable properties clause" will discourage inbound investments. International law countering discrimination supports a purposive interpretation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/21swyd8

Keywords: MLI, immovable property, foreign investment, international taxation, tax treaty, domestic tax law, treaty override, participation exemption, non-discrimination, case law, fundamental freedoms

Suggested Citation:

Catucci, Nicola, Do Italian and International Tax Rules Require a Literal Application of the Value Test Under Article 9(4) of the Mli? Possible Remedies to the Disproportionate Tax Treatment of Capital-Intensive Inbound Investments. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 10, Pages 493-504, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/21swyd8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies