Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aligning the Location of Taxation with the Location of Value Creation: Are We There Yet!?!

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 549-561

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Angelo Nikolakakis

Independent

Abstract

In this 75th anniversary issue of the Bulletin for International Taxation, the author examines critically the implications of the initiatives - the OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project and the (resulting) Pillars One and Two - that have been suggested as ways of reforming the international tax regime. The analysis is focussed in particular on the implications of these initiatives with regard to the goal of aligning the location of taxation with the location of value creation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/4dxqwf

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), BEPS Project (OECD), nexus, global income tax, value creation

Suggested Citation:

Nikolakakis, Angelo, Aligning the Location of Taxation with the Location of Value Creation: Are We There Yet!?!. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 11/12, Pages 549-561, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/4dxqwf
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies