Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Indian Statutory Definition of "Liable to Tax": Interaction with India's Tax Treaties

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 276-286

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Shefali Goradia

Independent

Abstract

This article considers the new definition of the term "liable to tax" introduced into Indian domestic tax law. The author discusses the historical background as to how Indian courts have viewed the term's scope, and whether the new definition can be imported into India's tax treaties to determine tax residence.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3w7eg7m

Keywords: tax liability, domestic tax law, case law, residence, transparency, pass-through entity, treaty interpretation

Suggested Citation:

Goradia, Shefali, The New Indian Statutory Definition of "Liable to Tax": Interaction with India's Tax Treaties. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 276-286, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3w7eg7m
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies