Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italian Supreme Court Clarifies Taxation of Capital Gains Effectively Connected to an Italian Permanent Establishment Arising from the Alienation of Immovable Properties in the State of Residence

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 294-301

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Mario Tenore

Independent

P. Arginelli

Independent

Abstract

The authors report on an Italian Supreme Court decision that clarifies the taxation of capital gains effectively connected to an Italian permanent establishment but arising from the alienation of immovable property situated in the state of residence, under the Egypt-Italy Income Tax Treaty (1979).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/33x7xrf

Keywords: case law, capital gains tax, effectively connected income, PE, immovable property, residence, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Tenore, Mario and Arginelli, P., Italian Supreme Court Clarifies Taxation of Capital Gains Effectively Connected to an Italian Permanent Establishment Arising from the Alienation of Immovable Properties in the State of Residence. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 294-301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/33x7xrf
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies