Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Permanent Establishments Under the OECD Model (2017) Based on the Principal Role Leading to the Conclusion of Contracts: A Doctrinal and Policy Analysis

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 11, Pages 670-680

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Kruthika Prakash

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the meaning and scope of the expression "playing the principal role leading to the conclusion of contracts" introduced into article 5(5) of the OECD Model (2017). From a policy perspective, the author argues that the 2017 changes realize the overarching principles of appropriate permanent establishment taxation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/h1acq2

Keywords: PE, agency PE, OECD Model, case law, economic substance, MLI

Suggested Citation:

Prakash, Kruthika, Permanent Establishments Under the OECD Model (2017) Based on the Principal Role Leading to the Conclusion of Contracts: A Doctrinal and Policy Analysis. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 11, Pages 670-680, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/h1acq2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies