Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Payments for the Acquisition of Software for Business Use for Spanish Treaty Purposes: Standard Software Versus Customized Software and the Spanish Observation to the Commentary on Article 12 of the OECD Model

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 168-176

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Enrique Sánchez de Castro Martín-Luengo

Independent

Abstract

This article considers the implications of the Spanish Observation to the Commentary on Article 12 of the OECD Model as it affects the taxation of payments for the acquisition of software for business use for Spanish treaty purposes, with special emphasis on the differing treatments of standard and customized software.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/69xrx3

Keywords: software, income classification, royalties, tax treaty, domestic tax law, OECD Model Commentaries

Suggested Citation:

Sánchez de Castro Martín-Luengo, Enrique, Taxation of Payments for the Acquisition of Software for Business Use for Spanish Treaty Purposes: Standard Software Versus Customized Software and the Spanish Observation to the Commentary on Article 12 of the OECD Model. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 168-176, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/69xrx3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies