Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Let's Talk About Trust: The Treatment of Foundations as Trusts Under the Common Reporting Standard: A Call for a New Approach

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 9, Pages 398-405

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Grahame Jackson

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the inadequacies of the mandated treatment of Foundations under the OECD Common Reporting Standard (which draws a direct analogy with the treatment of trusts), the uncertainty that brings, and the concomitant risks of regulatory breaches. The author proposes a more consistent and accurate approach.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/30bx7b7

Keywords: CRS, trust, foundation, control

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame, Let's Talk About Trust: The Treatment of Foundations as Trusts Under the Common Reporting Standard: A Call for a New Approach. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 9, Pages 398-405, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/30bx7b7
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies