Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Documenting the Undocumented: The Impact of Employment Verification Mandates on Government Borrowing Costs

Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 5003912

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2024/017

51 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2024 Last revised: 10 Jul 2025

Lei Li

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Liwei Weng

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 08, 2024

Abstract

The real consequences of information technology adoption represent an important yet underexamined issue. Our research focuses on the staggered implementation of the Employment Verification (E-Verify) system—an information system adopted by the government to improve labor law compliance by electronically verifying employment eligibility through real-time, automated information-matching technology. We examine its real effects through the lens of public finance and find that E-Verify adoption significantly reduces municipal bond offering spreads, indicating lower government borrowing costs. This effect is more pronounced in states that had larger populations of undocumented immigrants prior to the enactment of the E-Verify system, in states perceived to enforce E-Verify more strictly, and in states where residents are more opposed to undocumented immigration. In contrast, the effect is weaker in states that are more economically reliant on undocumented labor. We also find that the adoption of the E-Verify system reduces tax revenues but simultaneously lowers government spending on education and welfare, leading to lower fiscal deficits. Overall, our study offers new insights into the real effects of government-adopted information systems.

Keywords: Undocumented Immigrants, E-Verify, Municipal Bonds, Information System

Suggested Citation:

Li, Lei and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Weng, Liwei and Zeng, Cheng, Documenting the Undocumented: The Impact of Employment Verification Mandates on Government Borrowing Costs (January 08, 2024). Northeastern U. D’Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper No. 5003912, HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2024/017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003912 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5003912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
C Amuedo-Dorantes , C Bansak
The labor market impact of mandated employment verification systems
American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 543 - 548 Posted: 2012
C Amuedo-Dorantes , C Bansak
Employment verification mandates and the labor market outcomes of likely unauthorized and native workers
Contemporary Economic Policy , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 671 - 680 Posted: 2014
C Amuedo-Dorantes , M J Lopez
Falling through the cracks? Grade retention and school dropout among children of likely unauthorized immigrants
American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings , volume 105 , issue 5 , p. 598 - 603 Posted: 2015
C Amuedo-Dorantes , E Arenas-Arroyo , C Wang
Is immigration enforcement shaping immigrant marriage patterns
Journal of Public Economics , volume 190 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,074
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,136
RANK
9,304
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies