Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Utility of Tax Residence Tests Beyond Taxing Rights and the Concept of "Tests of Belonging" Given the Growing Number of Multilateral Provisions in the Context of Territorial Tax Regimes with Special Reference to Gibraltar and Hong Kong

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 290-296

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Grahame Jackson

Independent

Abstract

This article discusses tax residence and its utility beyond a demarcation of taxing rights. Taking Gibraltar and Hong Kong as examples, it argues that the act of claiming tax residence is an act of sovereignty, and predicates participation in the international tax community for territories.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/rtez9f

Keywords: residence, allocation of taxing rights, tax sovereignty

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame, The Utility of Tax Residence Tests Beyond Taxing Rights and the Concept of "Tests of Belonging" Given the Growing Number of Multilateral Provisions in the Context of Territorial Tax Regimes with Special Reference to Gibraltar and Hong Kong. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 290-296, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/rtez9f
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
46
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies