Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Frameworks: Assessing the 2020s Compromise from the Perspective of Taxing the Digital Economy in the Great Lockdown

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 9, Pages 532-549

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Craig Elliffe

Independent

Abstract

This article provides an assessment of the new international tax framework for taxing the digital economy as proposed by the OECD/Inclusive Framework. In this critique of the new regime, the author refers to the prospective new international tax architecture as the "2020s compromise", as opposed to the currently applicable "1920s compromise".

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3qpc7ms

Keywords: Inclusive Framework (OECD), digital economy, allocation of taxing rights, value creation, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), nexus, allocation of profits, user participation, intellectual property, income classification, transfer pricing, residence principle of taxation, tax competition

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig, International Tax Frameworks: Assessing the 2020s Compromise from the Perspective of Taxing the Digital Economy in the Great Lockdown. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 9, Pages 532-549, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3qpc7ms
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies