Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Allocation of Income and the Disregarding of Narrowly Held Entities Following the Oecd/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project: Coordination of Work on Exchange of Information and Income Allocation Rules

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 7, Pages 334-352

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pablo A. Hernández González-Barreda

Independent

Abstract

The implications of developments regarding exchange of information rules together with changes to the international taxation regime have been underestimated. The use of economic concepts to exchange information relating to tax treaties could overapply economic and substance approaches in the allocation of income, thereby disregarding legal arrangements and persons.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xtsdfs

Keywords: allocation of income, allocation of assets, hybrid entity, exchange of information, tax treaty, domestic tax law, substance over form, CRS, beneficial ownership, international taxation

Suggested Citation:

Hernández González-Barreda, Pablo A., The Economic Allocation of Income and the Disregarding of Narrowly Held Entities Following the Oecd/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project: Coordination of Work on Exchange of Information and Income Allocation Rules. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 76 (2022), Issue 7, Pages 334-352, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2xtsdfs
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
52
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies