Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treaties and Abuse: The Effectiveness of the Principal Purpose Test and Some of its Shortcomings

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 287-293

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Hans van den Hurk

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author sets out his views on the abuse of tax treaties and the effectiveness of the provisions contained in article 29(9) of the OECD Model regarding the principal purpose test (PPT), together with a consideration of some of the drawbacks of the PPT.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3ver1ae

Keywords: principal purpose test, tax treaty, treaty abuse, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, economic activity, rule of law

Suggested Citation:

Hurk, Hans van den, Tax Treaties and Abuse: The Effectiveness of the Principal Purpose Test and Some of its Shortcomings. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 287-293, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3ver1ae
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies