Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Income Tax Consequences of Decentralized Finance (Defi) in a South African Context and Beyond

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 8, Pages 320-330

Posted: 6 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Shaun Parsons

Independent

H. Schoonwinkel

Independent

Abstract

This study explores the income tax consequences of peer-to-peer crypto asset lending in decentralized finance (DeFi) transactions. The analysis highlights the complexity and potential uncertainty of these tax consequences, and raises considerations of classification and neutrality that may be important for jurisdictions to consider in their legislative responses.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/39sw5mg

Keywords: cryptocurrency, financing, loan, income classification, disposal, exchange gains and losses, tax certainty, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Shaun and Schoonwinkel, H., An Analysis of the Income Tax Consequences of Decentralized Finance (Defi) in a South African Context and Beyond. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 8, Pages 320-330, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/39sw5mg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies