Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Implications for Private Equity Investments

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-42

in Research Handbook on the Structure of Private Equity and Venture Capital (Brian Broughman & Elisabeth de Fontenay eds., forthcoming 2025).

26 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024 Last revised: 30 Oct 2024

Young Ran (Christine) Kim

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: October 29, 2024

Abstract

Private equity funds (PEFs) have continuously grown over the last couple of decades, making up a “quarter of global M&A activity and as much as half of the leveraged loan issues in the capital markets” (Talmor and Vasvari, 2011, 3). Its popularity is due to the fact that it allows access to capital not available on the public markets. However, discourse on private equity tax is still limited to domestic matters. There is scant research analyzing international tax aspects of PEFs’ cross-border investment, despite the dramatic increase in international capital flows. Indeed, PEFs invest all over the world. American private equity firms were in charge of 32% of international buyout investments between 2003 and 2007. During the same period, 34% of the investments from the European private equity market were deployed in nondomestic countries (Talmor and Vasvari, 2011).

PEFs eliminate entity-level taxation by using pass-through entities. They further minimize their investors’ tax liability by taking the position that profits distributed to both general partners (GPs) and limited partners (LPs) are passive portfolio investment income and taxed preferentially. The taxation of carried interest at low capital gains rates is likely the most infamous loophole. This Chapter critically analyzes the nature of PEF investment in the cross-border context—whether it is active investment or passive portfolio investment—and discusses the international tax implications. If the nature of PEF investment is active as opposed to the traditional wisdom, the primary tax jurisdiction to levy tax on PEFs’ cross-border income, especially carried interest, would be changed.

This Chapter further proceeds to the pass-through taxation that investors in PEFs aim to accomplish.   Fund investment, or indirect investment, does not entail entity-level taxation domestically, so investors enjoy “tax neutrality” between direct and indirect investments made within a country. In contrast, when investments are made across borders, tax neutrality cannot be guaranteed because current international tax regimes are built upon bilateral tax treaties and lack pass-through tax rules for multinational fund investment schemes. This may put investors in a worse tax position than had they invested directly (i.e., over-taxation). In response, investors have created many strategies to reduce tax liabilities internationally when investing indirectly. Sometimes those strategies enable investors to pay even fewer taxes than they would with a tax-neutral benchmark (i.e., under-taxation). This Chapter considers how to achieve tax neutrality goals in the cross-border PEF investments.  

Keywords: Private equity, International tax, Carried interest, Source taxation, Residence taxation, Foreign portfolio investment, Pass-through taxation, private equity funds, business tax, partnership tax, tax treaty, OECD, tax transparency, exchange of information, FATCA

JEL Classification: G23, G24, H25, G26, K34, F21, F23, G28

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Young Ran (Christine), International Tax Implications for Private Equity Investments (October 29, 2024). Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-42, in Research Handbook on the Structure of Private Equity and Venture Capital (Brian Broughman & Elisabeth de Fontenay eds., forthcoming 2025)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5004154 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5004154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Cases Brief of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council as Amicus Curiae in Support of Appellees' Petition for Panel Rehearing or Rehearing en banc
Sun Capital Partners III LP v. New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension Fund, 724 F.3d 129 , volume 309 Posted: 1939
3d at 149-50 (the Sun Capital Fund IV and two parallel funds of the Sun Capital Fund III divided SBI ownership 70% and 30%, respectively) , volume 724
Ya Glob , Invs , Lp V
Statutes and Regulations Agreement for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Regulation of Certain Other Matters with Respect to Taxes on Income and Fortune
WL , volume 7678506 Posted: 1970
H R
2834, 110th Cong Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,767
RANK
232,542
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies