Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ability of Deferred Tax to Predict Future Tax: A Panel Data Analysis

70 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2024

Sutika Rukprasoot

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This research purposes to investigate the ability of deferred tax to predict future tax expense for improve value relevance. Hence, data from SET 100 listed company in Thailand for 5-year, 500 observations, are collected to this study. The results indicate that tax current paid are positive influence in future tax increase. Likewise, deferred tax asset for tax loss carryforwards and deferred tax asset exclude tax loss carryforwards are influence to tax payment in the future decrease. Moreover, deferred tax liability is influence to tax payment in the future increase. Even though, deferred tax predictability the future tax expense. However, in global economic recession, COVID-2019, the prediction model is unpredictable. In addition, theoretical and management contribution are obvious. A conclusion and future research are emphasized.

Keywords: Deferred Tax, Panel Data, Random Effect Method, Value Relevance

Suggested Citation:

Rukprasoot, Sutika, The Ability of Deferred Tax to Predict Future Tax: A Panel Data Analysis. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5006294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5006294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Acharya , Marc Viral , Paolo Gabarro , Volpin
Competition for Managers and Corporate Governance
Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 219 Posted: 2021
Wessel M Badenhorst , Petri H Ferreira
The Financial Crisis and the Value-relevance of Recognised Deferred Tax Assets
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 300 Posted: 2016
Board
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Posted: 2018
Building
Federation of Accounting Professions. 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
280
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies