Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Roadmap to NIL and Taxation

14 Am. U. Bus. L. Rev. 273 (2024)

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 25-18

52 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2024 Last revised: 4 Jun 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Yariv Brauner

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: August 30, 2024

Abstract

The landscape of college sports has dramatically changed in recent years. What was once considered a place for amateur athletes pursuing education now partially mirrors, at least for some student-athletes, the structure and financial dynamics of professional leagues such as the NFL, NBA, and MLB. However, the collegiate sports ecosystem still remains distinct, shaped by unique regulatory frameworks governed by the NCAA. This article reviews and analyses the implications of these changes, and focuses on the tax considerations surrounding Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) rights and how the evolving nature of college sports also presents certain tax implications, some of which are fairly technical, that can truly impact the economic outcomes for these student-athletes. The article aims to help student-athletes and other stakeholders better navigate this new and complex landscape by providing guidance on making informed decisions and understanding the potential tax consequences and pitfalls, ensuring they can maximize their opportunities while complying with applicable tax laws.

Keywords: Tax, Federal Tax, NIL, College Sports, Income Tax, NCAA, Student-Athlete

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Brauner, Yariv, A Roadmap to NIL and Taxation (August 30, 2024). 14 Am. U. Bus. L. Rev. 273 (2024), University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 25-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5008486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5008486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
168,175
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies