Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Domestic Product Market Impacts of Politically Motivated Foreign Tariffs

Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper

40 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2024

Duke Ferguson

University of Kentucky - Gatton College of Business and Economics

Carly Burd

North Carolina State University

Date Written: October 23, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effects of foreign tariffs on the US product market. Using the recent US whiskey tariffs implemented as a result of political strife, we utilize a differences-in-differences specification to show that, on average, US whiskey producers decrease US product prices following a sharp increase in foreign export tariffs. However, in cross-sectional analyses, we find that producers implement strategic product pricing in response to the foreign tariffs, by more significantly decreasing prices in states where whiskey consumption is less popular, and by increasing prices in primary production states (Kentucky and Tennessee). Further, we provide evidence that following the tariffs, US whiskey producers decrease advertising spending across the US but not in Kentucky and Tennessee. Taken together, these findings provide timely evidence regarding how foreign trade restrictions significantly impact the US product market and consumer outcomes.

Keywords: tariffs, indirect taxes, whiskey, product prices

JEL Classification: M40, M41, F10, F13, F14

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Duke and Burd, Carlyle, Domestic Product Market Impacts of Politically Motivated Foreign Tariffs (October 23, 2024). Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5010824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5010824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
M Amiti , S J Redding , D E Weinstein
The Impact of the 2018 tariffs on prices and welfare
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 187 - 210 Posted: 2019
M Amiti , S J Redding , D E Weinstein
Who's Paying for the US Tariffs? A Longer-Term Perspective
AEA Papers and Proceedings , volume 110 , p. 541 - 546 Posted: 2020
M Amiti , S Kong , D E Weinstein
Trade Protection, Stock-Market Returns, and Welfare Posted: 2021
T Andreyeva , M W Long , K D Brownell
The impact of food prices on consumption: A systematic review of research on the price elasticity of demand for food
American Journal of Public Health , volume 100 , issue 2 , p. 216 - 222 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
633
RANK
422,861
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies