Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UF Tax Incubator: Gutting Subpart F?

Reprinted from Tax Notes Federal, September 30, 2024, p. 2677

6 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: September 30, 2024

Abstract

The UF Tax Incubator, a group of primarily tax advisors of major law and accounting firms and some in-house tax professionals, all of whom have to some extent an agenda to help their multinational clients and employers, have issued a series of recommendations on possible tax law changes. In their July 2024 Tax Notes Federal paper, Subpart F and GILTI Recommendations, they made a number of suggestions that would encourage and help multinationals secure their profit-shifting structures by emasculating the current subpart F foreign base company sales and services income rules.

In this paper, I set out in detail how this group's seriously problematic recommendations would emasculate, or completely eliminate, certain subpart F tools that exist to prevent profit shifting. For example, they recommend eliminating the FBCSI branch rule. The recent Whirlpool case and the response of the National Association of Manufacturers to that case is strong evidence of how important the branch rule is. It must be retained, and this UF Tax Incubator group wants to blithely delete it from the Code.

Keywords: subpart F, International Taxation, Profit-Shifting, BEPS, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., UF Tax Incubator: Gutting Subpart F? (September 30, 2024). Reprinted from Tax Notes Federal, September 30, 2024, p. 2677, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5013675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5013675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
343
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies