Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complexity of the Income-Tax Ordinance, 1984 - Laws of Bangladesh: Readability Assessment

22 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2024

Tarun Sen

Jashore University of Science and Technology

Rownok Ara

Jashore University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This study's goal is to determine how readable Bangladesh's income tax laws are in relation to their complexity. The FRES and F-KGL readability tests were used to examine the ITO 1984 and the Schedules to the ITO 1984. Analyzing data using FRES and F-KGL, It is discovered that the Income Tax Ordinance (ITO) 1984 and its schedules are difficult to comprehend. FRES and F-KGL scores for ITO 1984 and Schedules indicate that Bangladeshi tax legislation and supporting documents are not very readable and that only persons with postgraduate and undergraduate degrees can fully understand the material. These readability tests are not enough since they did not take the structure, organization and substance of the reading information into consideration. Current study mainly focuses on the element of the laws' readability, but various points of view may be responsible for complexity. It is also important to remember that just the English version was used for this investigation. Given that the formulas were created based on papers in the English language, no analysis of the Bengali version was done. The results show that it might be necessary to rewrite the study materials. It is hoped that the results will benefit the tax authority as well as the body of knowledge.

Keywords: Bangladesh, Income Tax Orinance-1984, Tax complexity, Readability

Suggested Citation:

Sen, Tarun and Ara, Rownok, Complexity of the Income-Tax Ordinance, 1984 - Laws of Bangladesh: Readability Assessment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5014913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics Posted: 2021
M Z Bhuiyan
Tax Evasion and Avoidance Practices in Some Selected Corporate Firms of Bangladesh
World Journal of Social Sciences , volume 2 , issue 7 , p. 150 - 156 Posted: 2012-11
J R Bormuth
The Cloze Readability Procedure
JSTOR , volume 45 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 436 Posted: 1968
G A Carnes , A D Cuccia
An Analysis of the Effect of Tax Complexity and its Perceived Justification on Equity Judgments
JATA , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
440
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies