Effects of the 2021 Expanded Child Tax Credit, Ben Lourie, Terry J. Shevlin, Devin M. Shanthikumar, Chenqi Zhu"> Effects of the 2021 Expanded Child Tax Credit">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of the 2021 Expanded Child Tax Credit

Management Science, Accepted

Posted: 18 Dec 2024

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Devin M. Shanthikumar

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Chenqi Zhu

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: November 03, 2024

Abstract

We analyze the impact of the 2021 Child Tax Credit (CTC) expansion using detailed transaction data from nearly two million individuals and difference-in-difference analyses around monthly CTC payments. We find that recipients significantly increase their consumption in the week following the payment versus the prior week, with more pronounced effects for lower-income recipients and those with more children. We also find a significant reduction in liquidity constraints for lower-income recipients, with reductions in overdrafts, use of high-interest payday loans, and use of gig work for supplemental income. Building on these initial findings, our analysis further delves into more nuanced, policy-targeted aspects: We observe a greater alleviation of liquidity constraints from monthly CTC payments compared to annual tax refunds. In addition, monthly payments decrease consumption volatility and increase stability in consumption levels. These results inform considerations for payment frequency. Furthermore, we provide insights into the income thresholds for the policy's phase-in and phase-out ranges by identifying the most pronounced consumption effects among the lowest-income recipients—who benefit from full refundability under the plan—and noting an absence of significant consumption changes among higher-income recipients. Our results present the first large-scale, transaction-based, empirical archival evidence of the effects stemming from the 2021 CTC amendments and provide insights for policy-related discussions.

Keywords: child tax credit, tax policy, individual tax, household finance, consumption, liquidity

JEL Classification: D12, D14, G5, H24, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lourie, Ben and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shanthikumar, Devin M. and Zhu, Chenqi, Effects of the 2021 Expanded Child Tax Credit (November 03, 2024). Management Science, Accepted, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014652
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
277
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies