Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequences of Global Tax Asymmetries on Foreign Risk-Taking

74 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2024

Nathan Born

U.S. Department of the Treasury; University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: November 08, 2024

Abstract

Global tax asymmetries alter foreign investment incentives. The new US international tax regime, global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), introduces a complex tax asymmetry based on taxable income and foreign capital structure factors, leading to incremental taxes on volatile foreign cash flows. I find empirical evidence consistent with US multinational enterprises responding to this asymmetry by decreasing foreign operational risks through consolidation of foreign operations, particularly those located in developing countries, into foreign headquarters. These costs are not accompanied by any discernable incremental policy benefit as the tax asymmetry is not associated with incrementally lower levels of foreign intangible assets. These insights are relevant to proposed reforms to GILTI in the United States and for the anticipated rollout of the OECD's new global tax framework.

Keywords: accounting, international taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, GILTI, TCJA

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Born, Nathan, The Unintended Consequences of Global Tax Asymmetries on Foreign Risk-Taking (November 08, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5014598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5014598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
D Aboody , S Levi , D Weiss
Managerial incentives, options, and cost-structure choices
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 422 - 451 Posted: 2017
J Albertus , B Glover , O Levine
Heads I win, tails you lose: Asymmetric taxes, risk taking and innovation
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 105 , p. 24 - 40 Posted: 2019
S Albring , D Dhaliwal , I Khurana , R Pereira
Short-term incentive effects of a reduction in the NOL carryback period
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 67 - 88 Posted: 2011
R Altshuler , A Auerbach
The significance of tax law asymmetries: An empirical investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
511,635
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies