Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Economic and Environmental Impact of Implementing a Carbon Tax for Revenue Generation in Nigeria

12 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2024

Aisha Mahmoud Hamman

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Zacch, Adelabu Adedeji

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: October 09, 2024

Abstract

Despite Nigeria's commitment to international climate agreements, the country faces significant challenges like limited resources, institutional capacity constraints and competing development priorities. This research examines the feasibility and potential impacts of a carbon tax within Nigeria's unique socioeconomic and political context. Using a comprehensive quantitative approach, the study employs forecasted analysis techniques to project revenue generation based on Nigeria's CO2 emissions and a proposed carbon tax rate. Results indicate a substantial potential for revenue, which could support sustainable development initiatives, economic diversification, and infrastructure improvements. The study underscores the dual benefit of carbon taxes: reducing emissions and providing essential funding for public goods and services. It recommends prioritizing the implementation of a carbon tax in Nigeria to leverage its economic and environmental advantages, promoting cleaner technologies and aligning with global climate efforts. By addressing the critical gap in Nigeria's climate strategy, this research provides valuable insights for policymakers on the design and execution of an effective carbon tax system tailored to Nigeria's needs.

Keywords: Carbon Tax, CO2 emission, Carbon tax rate

Suggested Citation:

Mahmoud Hamman, Aisha and Adedeji, Zacch, Adelabu, Evaluating the Economic and Environmental Impact of Implementing a Carbon Tax for Revenue Generation in Nigeria (October 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5015406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5015406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Carbon Tax Rate for Nigeria (USD) , volume 947
A M Aminu , H Aminu
An Empirical Investigation of the Impacts of Carbon Tax on Economic Growth In Nigeria
Journal DOI , issue 10 Posted: 2020
E Belfiori , A Rezai
Implicit carbon prices: Making do with the taxes we have
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 125 Posted: 2024
H Bernd
The influence of Knut Wicksell on Richard Musgrave and James Buchanan , volume 103 , p. 95 - 116 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
427
RANK
724,701
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies