Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform Bills Meant to Harmonise Scattered Laws: A Path to a More Competent Tax Regime in Nigeria

9 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Aisha Mahmoud Hamman

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Zacch, Adelabu Adedeji

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: October 09, 2024

Abstract

In Nigeria, tax administration has long been affected by the disjointed nature of its tax laws. The existence of multiple legislative frameworks governing various tax regimes has created complications, inadequacies and transparency issues. Nigeria's tax laws have been perceived to be multifaceted and challenging for the average taxpayer to comprehend. In some instances, even well-informed tax officers sometimes struggle to interpret these regulations. Recently, there has been a growing emphasis on the necessity of harmonizing the tax reform bills to consolidate these scattered laws. This paper examines the possible effects of tax reforms on tax administration, compliance and revenue generation for government public spending in Nigeria emphasizing the significant provisions, the necessity for harmonization of the tax laws and the implications for various stakeholders involved in the tax system.

Suggested Citation:

Mahmoud Hamman, Aisha and Adedeji, Zacch, Adelabu, Tax Reform Bills Meant to Harmonise Scattered Laws: A Path to a More Competent Tax Regime in Nigeria (October 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5015481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5015481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
R Bird , E M Zolt
Technology and Taxation in Developing Countries: From Hand to Mouse SSRN
Electronic Journal , volume 61 , issue 4 Posted: 2008-09
K Guth
Institutional theory of organizations, Encyclopedia of corporate reputation
Tax Policy for Developing Countries , p. 359 - 361 Posted: 2001
Vito Tanzi , Howell Zee
Posted: 2001-03
D Jibrin
Nigeria's Withholding Tax Reforms: Key Changes and Implications, Business Day Newspaper, Jully 11 th Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
589
RANK
644,872
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies