Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Consumer-Facing Business as a Regulatory Currency

41 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Ana Paula Dourado

University of Lisbon - Institute for Economic, Financial and Fiscal (IDEFF)

Date Written: November 01, 2021

Abstract

Taxing Consumer-Facing Business as a Regulatory Currency The author contends that taxation should be a regulatory currency for the free collection, mining and sale of personal data and connected activities (knowledge discovery and data mining business (KDDM), also called consumer-facing business (CFB)) that is similar to a royalty on natural resources and independent of the urgently needed international tax system reform. Taxing the enormous profits accruing to CFB as a regulatory currency would be an example of a public utility measure contributing to regulating the stateless power of digital giants by gaining back sovereignty so that liberal states would be able to protect privacy and their democracies. Earmarked taxes raised by market states on CFB are recommended as a means to achieve this purpose. With the aim of demonstrating her thesis, the author critically examines the OECD discussions about the allocation of taxing rights in the digital economy; explains the KDDM business model underlying the use of social networks and other internet sites, its lack of transparency, and the insufficient consent models to guarantee data protection; and considers the meaning of privacy as a fundamental right and a condition to free speech, the public sphere and democracy, and the constraints that KDDM causes them.

Suggested Citation:

Dourado, Ana Paula, Taxing Consumer-Facing Business as a Regulatory Currency (November 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5015974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5015974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
The BEPS Monitoring Group discussed the difference between the digital and digitalized economy, claiming that the digitalized economy is the correct term due to the wide disbursement of digital aspects in all economic sectors: BEPS Monitoring Group
Tax Challenges in the Digitalized Economy, Selected Issues for Possible Committee Consideration Posted: 2014-09-15
H Fanet , M Duranton , M Bouzeghoub , R Mosseri
Les Technologies au Service du Big Data
Les Big Data à Découvert , p. 26 - 27 Posted: 2016
Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy
World Economic Forum , p. 45 - 46 Posted: 2021-09-15
R A Clarke , R Knake
The Internet Freedom League
Foreign Affairs , p. 184 - 192 Posted: 2019-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies