Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multi-jurisdictional Taxing Rights: Determinants and Implications

54 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Katie Boylen

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 07, 2024

Abstract

Motivated by the OECD's Pillar 1 focus on a reallocation of taxing rights of residual profits to market jurisdictions, we investigate U.S. state-level determinants and implications of sales-focused taxing rights. In the past two decades, U.S. states shifted the focus of taxing rights from personnel and physical capital to the amount and location of sales. Salesfocused taxing rights typically benefit in-jurisdiction firms and increase the number of out-ofjurisdiction firms subject to taxation. Examining post 2000 data, our evidence suggests states select sales-focused taxing rights when such policies would benefit their constituents. We also find that taxing rights explain little of the variation in tax revenues but appear to play a bigger role in influencing employment and investment compared to other state tax and non-tax characteristics. Our study jointly considers multiple aspects of taxing rights over a long period and informs domestic and foreign policymakers on multi-jurisdictional taxing rights.

Keywords: state corporate income tax, apportionment, taxing rights

JEL Classification: H25, H71, H72, H73, H20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Boylen, Kathleen and Kelley, Stacie and Vernon, Mary, Multi-jurisdictional Taxing Rights: Determinants and Implications (November 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5018525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5018525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B N Anand , R Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy , volume 53 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2000
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Posted: 1977
A Belnap , K Kroeger , J R Thornock
Explaining tax avoidance: Insights from thirty years of research Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
343
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies