Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Net Operating Loss Carryforwards Affect Tax Impact on Corporate Capital Structure

79 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Mei Li

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou)

Date Written: May 01, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates how the net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards affect the tax impact on corporate capital structure utilizing the TCJA 2017's corporate tax cut, the biggest tax reform in four decades, as NOL carryforwards have become an increasingly growing factor since 2000 but not widely studied due to the Compustat NOL data quality issue. This research uses difference-indifferences , triple difference PSM and logit models to conduct a cross-sectional and longitudinal study. To improve from previous studies, this paper employs the simulated marginal tax rates (SMTR) instead of the commonly used effective tax rates to reduce endogeneity and improved NOL data to complement the deficiency of Compustat data and enhance the accuracy of estimates. I find that the increasingly growing NOL carryforwards do affect firms' sensitivity to tax reforms and the taxation impact on capital structure, as firms with no or small NOL carryforwards respond to the TCJA by reducing their leverages significantly more than firms with large NOL carryforwards. This tax exhaustion effect also reduces the firms' preference for debt financing. By quantifying NOL's various effects, I discover that NOL's tax exhaustion effect dominates its substitution effect for interest deduction and nondebt tax shield depreciation's replacement.

Keywords: Capital Structure, TCJA, Tax Reform, Net Operating Loss Carryforwards

Suggested Citation:

Li, Mei, How Do Net Operating Loss Carryforwards Affect Tax Impact on Corporate Capital Structure (May 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5021851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5021851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Reference
A R Admati , P M Demarzo , M F Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
The Leverage Ratchet Effect: Leverage Ratchet Effect
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 145 - 198 Posted: 2018
R Altshuler , A J Auerbach
The Significance of Tax Law Asymmetries: An Empirical Investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 Posted: 1990
Z An
Taxation and capital structure: Empirical evidence from a quasi-experiment in China
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , p. 683 - 689 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
606
RANK
864,731
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies