Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How (Not) to Tax Sunshine: Bunching around Tax-Exempt Thresholds for Rooftop Photovoltaic Systems

27 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024 Last revised: 3 Apr 2025

Drahomir Klimsa

European University Viadrina

Mario Rieger

University of Augsburg

Robert Ullmann

University of Augsburg; Norwegian Center for Taxation

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

We investigate tax-induced inefficiency in micro-scale renewable energy production. In 2022, Germany abolished a maximum capacity threshold on small non-commercial rooftop photovoltaic systems, thereby essentially exempting all units from both tax payments and tax filings. We use a full-population dataset of all newly installed rooftop photovoltaic systems in Germany to investigate bunching around the initial threshold. We argue that bunching is an indicator of the inefficient use of available rooftop space and show that the abolition of the threshold led to an immediate and large reaction toward a more efficient use of the limited resource. Specifically, the abolition resulted in an increase in newly installed solar energy production capacity of approx. 69 MWp per year, corresponding to the entire annual electricity demand of more than 500,000 German households after only one investment cycle of 25 years. Moreover, we find that efficiency losses due to the initial threshold were asymmetric, i.e., caused the most inefficient use of rooftop space in areas with the most sunshine hours, i.e., where the expected energy production per kWp of installed capacity is highest. Additionally, our setting enables us to quantify the monetary value of the administrative burden for operators of RPS arising from tax filing. We find that this burden is substantial, corresponding to 16.5%-21.2% of the total investment costs of RPS.

Keywords: taxation, renewable energy, sustainability, photovoltaic systems JEL Classification: H20

JEL Classification: H20, H23, L94, Q42

Suggested Citation:

Klimsa, Drahomir and Rieger, Mario and Ullmann, Robert, How (Not) to Tax Sunshine: Bunching around Tax-Exempt Thresholds for Rooftop Photovoltaic Systems (November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022002 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the Radar: The Effects of Monitoring Firms on Tax Compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
D Bernard , D Burgstahler , D Kaya
Size management by European private firms to minimize proprietary costs of disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 122 Posted: 2018
M Bertanha , A H Mccallum , N Seegert
Better bunching, nicer notching
Journal of Econometrics , volume 237 Posted: 2023
S Borenstein , L Davis
The Distributional Effects of US Tax Credits for Heat Pumps, Solar Panels, and Electric Vehicles
National Tax Journal , volume 78 , issue 1 , p. 263 - 288 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
307
RANK
880,951
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Energy Policy & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies