Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Navigating the Changing Tax Landscape: The Importance of Cross-border Advisory Alliances in Multinational Tax Planning

Posted: 8 Jan 2025 Last revised: 14 Sep 2025

Anastasios Elemes

ESSEC Business School

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

In the early 2010s, Belgium’s notional interest deduction regime lost much of its appeal as declining interest rates steadily eroded allowable deductions, while policymakers faced growing pressure to reform the system. At the same time, the UK’s 2013 introduction of a highly advantageous patent box regime, combined with falling corporate tax rates, created new tax planning opportunities. This study examines how multinational corporation (MNC) affiliates adapted their tax strategies amid these shifts in the UK and EU tax landscape. We exploit the case of PwC Europe—a profit-pooling, cross-border alliance of local PwC member firms with harmonized partner appraisal and remuneration systems—to distinguish the responses of MNC affiliates that are clients of PwC Europe from other affiliates. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that PwC-alliance-audited affiliates more extensively reorganized income-shifting activities to exploit the UK patent box than non-alliance peers. Treated affiliates relocated intangible and financial assets, shifted operating and financial income to UK PwC-audited affiliates, and routed dividends from the UK to Germany and Belgium via the Netherlands. Our findings provide the first large-sample empirical evidence that cross-border advisory firms enable MNCs to respond in a timely manner to changing tax incentives and effectively capitalize on emerging planning opportunities.

Keywords: multinational companies, income shifting, audit firms, strategic alliance, patent box, dividends

Suggested Citation:

Elemes, Anastasios and Chow, Travis and Klassen, Kenneth,

Navigating the Changing Tax Landscape: The Importance of Cross-border Advisory Alliances in Multinational Tax Planning

(November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5022941 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5022941
 Not Available for Download
76 References
A A Acito , M L Nessa
Law firms as tax planning service providers
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2022
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
J M Barrios , J Gallemore
Tax planning knowledge diffusion via the labor market
Management Science Posted: 2023
A M Bauer
Tax avoidance and the implications of weak internal controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,042
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies