Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial reporting effects of tax planning and execution

Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5023922

49 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024 Last revised: 19 Dec 2024

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: November 12, 2024

Abstract

Corporations face a variety of taxes in each jurisdiction they operate in. The most salient of these taxes for financial reporting purposes – the subject of this handbook – is income taxes. Corporate tax planning strives to maximize a firm’s after-tax income by incorporating an understanding of how all types of taxes impact a firm’s operating, investing, and financing considerations. Managers must know how, when, and why each business decision they make affects their firm’s tax payments for cash flow budgeting purposes. Managers must also know how, when, and why their business decisions affect the tax expense amount that appears on their firm’s financial reporting-based Income Statement. The most effective managers, as well as savvy stakeholders, understand the many important differences between income tax payments that firms make each year and the tax expense amount that appears within firms’ annual Income Statement. 

Keywords: tax planning framework and research, accounting for income taxes, financial statement tax-related disclosures, cross-border profit shifting

Suggested Citation:

Koester, Allison and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Wilson, Ryan J., Financial reporting effects of tax planning and execution (November 12, 2024). Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5023922, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5023922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5023922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
156 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1/2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax Boycotts , volume 99 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
G Baghdadi , E J Podolski , M Veeraraghavan
CEO risk-seeking and corporate tax avoidance: Evidence from pilot CEOs
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 76 Posted: 2022
A Belnap , J L Hoopes , J H Wilde
Who really matters in corporate tax planning?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
RANK
370,049
156 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies