Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
E-Government and Corporate Tax Planning: International Evidence

59 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2024 Last revised: 31 Mar 2025

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Panagiotis Karavitis

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Pantelis Kazakis

University of Glasgow

Niswatil Mouna

University of Glasgow

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of e-government advancements on corporate tax planning activities. We define e-government as the readiness and capacity of national institutions to use information and communications technologies to deliver public services. Using over 82,000 worldwide firm-level data from 10,936 unique firms in 56 countries over the period 2008-2021, we observe a negative association between a country’s e-government advancement and the overall tax avoidance practices of firms. Via path analysis, we identify the underlying mechanisms through which e-government affects corporate tax avoidance and document that the total tax enforcement budget but also specific technological features such as AI-machine learning, and robotic process automation explain a sizeable fraction of the negative relationship between e-government advancements and corporate tax avoidance. Additionally, we show that the impact of e-government on curbing tax planning is particularly pronounced in environments where firms traditionally accrue tax benefits via intangible assets. Finally, we show that e-government negatively impacts the capital (but not labor) investment of tax aggressive firms. Our main findings remain robust after implementing an instrumental variables strategy and conducting various robustness tests. Collectively, our findings indicate that e-government investments can help raise a nation’s tax revenue collection, as such investments are linked to reduced corporate tax avoidance activities. 

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax planning, digitalization, e-government, digital governments

JEL Classification: G30, G38, H26, L1, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Karavitis, Panagiotis and Kazakis, Pantelis and Mouna, Niswatil, E-Government and Corporate Tax Planning: International Evidence (November 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
J M Argilés-Bosch , A Somoza , D Ravenda , J García-Blandón
An empirical examination of the influence of e-commerce on tax avoidance in Europe
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 41 Posted: 2020
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psycho logical research: Conceptual, strategic and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,258
RANK
280,691
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies