Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Tax Forecasts as a Signal of Future Firm Performance

61 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2025

Erik Beardsley

University of Illinois

Youkun Huang

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Stefan Richter

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting; The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: October 16, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether managers' voluntary tax forecasts provide a unique signal of future firm performance and whether the market fully incorporates the information into earnings expectations. We propose that the release of a voluntary tax forecast serves as an implicit indicator of management's optimism about future performance. We find that firms voluntarily disclosing a future effective tax rate (ETR) during conference calls have higher profitability and sales revenue in future periods. In addition, this information does not seem to be fully incorporated by market participants, as firms with a voluntary ETR forecast are more likely to beat analysts' forecasts and also have a higher earnings response coefficient for earnings surprises. Our study contributes to the literature on how the reporting of accounting information can have predictive power in the capital markets. 

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, income taxes, information environment, conference calls, forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Beardsley, Erik and Huang, Youkun and Richter, Stefan and Williams, Brian, Voluntary Tax Forecasts as a Signal of Future Firm Performance (October 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5026241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5026241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
H S Asay , J L Hoopes , J R Thornock , J H Wilde
Tax boycotts
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
J Asker , J Farre-Mensa , A Ljungqvist
Corporate investment and stock market listing: A puzzle? The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 342 - 390 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
750
RANK
531,414
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies