Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.N. International Tax Cooperation: The Terms of References Final Draft

Tax Notes Int'l 116 (2024)

13 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2025 Last revised: 20 Nov 2024

Leopoldo Parada

King's College London

Date Written: November 04, 2024

Abstract

This article analyzes the TOR final draft, arguing that while it establishes a foundational governance structure for the UN framework convention, captures the political momentum, and provides a degree of legal certainty, it also leaves open several areas for improvement. These include the need for more precise objectives and principles, the avoidance of vague legal language, a narrower focus on priority areas for both early and future protocols, and more transparent decision-making procedures. Moreover, this article suggests that beyond the specific analysis of the TOR final draft, it is crucial to recognize its importance as a key advancement toward a more balanced and flexible global tax framework, especially considering the pressing need for counterbalances in the ongoing international tax policy debate.

Keywords: tax cooperation, UN tax cooperation; developing countries; terms of references; ToR; global tax governance

Suggested Citation:

Parada, Leopoldo, U.N. International Tax Cooperation: The Terms of References Final Draft (November 04, 2024). Tax Notes Int'l 116 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5027400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5027400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
837
RANK
306,268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies