Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accessory Tax Obligations Imposed on Digital Service Providers, Opinion Statement Ecj-Tf 2/2023 on the ECJ Decision of 22 December 2022 in Airbnb Ireland and Airbnb Payments UK (Case C-83/21)

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 387-393

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Georg Kofler

Independent

F.A. García Prats

Independent

W.C. Haslehner

Independent

E.C.C.M. Kemmeren

Independent

M. Lang

Independent

J.F. Pinto Nogueira

Independent

C. HJI Panayi

Independent

S. Raventós-Calvo

Independent

I. Richelle

Independent

A. Rust

Independent

Abstract

In this CFE Opinion Statement, submitted to the EU Institutions in June 2023, the CFE ECJ Task Force comments on the ECJ decision in Airbnb Ireland and Airbnb Payments UK (Case C-83/21), wherein the Court decided, inter alia, that it was compatible with the freedom to provide services for the Italian tax authorities to impose tax obligations on service providers offering their intermediation services regarding real estate located in Italy, including the obligation to collect and report data and to withhold tax on the intermediated payments. It held, however, that it was disproportionate to request that they appoint a tax representative resident in Italy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1nmw4yj

Keywords: ECJ case law, fundamental freedoms, intermediary, platform economy, immovable property, withholding tax, proportionality

Suggested Citation:

Kofler, Georg and García Prats, F.A. and Haslehner, W.C. and Kemmeren, E.C.C.M. and Lang, M. and Nogueira, J.F. Pinto and HJI Panayi, C. and Raventós-Calvo, S. and Richelle, I. and Rust, A., Accessory Tax Obligations Imposed on Digital Service Providers, Opinion Statement Ecj-Tf 2/2023 on the ECJ Decision of 22 December 2022 in Airbnb Ireland and Airbnb Payments UK (Case C-83/21). European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 387-393, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1nmw4yj
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
142
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies