Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dac6: Interpretation of the Hallmarks and the Main Benefit Test in Belgian and International Tax Practice

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 490-500

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Denis-Emmanuel Philippe

Independent

Abstract

The Belgian tax authorities have announced that they will be carrying out the first DAC6 audits as from September 2022. In this article, the author focusses on the interpretation of reportable arrangements, as well as the impact of DAC6 on well-known planning structures in the Belgian and international tax practice (for example, arrangements involving the use of holding vehicles, fund structures, management incentive schemes and corporate restructurings).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/18e8sep

Keywords: DAC6, audit, cross-border arrangement, aggressive tax planning, main benefit test

Suggested Citation:

Philippe, Denis-Emmanuel, Dac6: Interpretation of the Hallmarks and the Main Benefit Test in Belgian and International Tax Practice. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 490-500, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/18e8sep
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies