Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spanish Cfc Rules Stray from the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (2016/1164)

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 177-185

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Álvaro de la Cueva González-Cotera

Independent

Abstract

This article discusses the main aspects of the Spanish CFC rules, which, following their recent amendment in connection with the transposition of the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, may give rise to problems of compatibility with EU law from two angles: (i) compliance with the ATAD transposition obligations; and (ii) respect for the fundamental freedoms of the European Union.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/27mchqy

Keywords: CFC, ATAD, fundamental freedoms, corporate income tax, non-resident company, control, allocation of income, holding company, double taxation relief

Suggested Citation:

Cueva González-Cotera, Álvaro de la, Spanish Cfc Rules Stray from the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (2016/1164). European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 177-185, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/27mchqy
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies