Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Special Tax Regime Applicable to Contributions of Controlling and "Qualifying" Participations in Italy: Recent Developments

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 2/3, Pages 78-83

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Marco Allena

Independent

R. Rossi

Independent

Abstract

This article addresses the main features of the tax rules applicable to contributions of participations under Italian law in light of experience gained since the broadening of the favourable tax regime relating to contributions of "qualifying" participations. The authors highlight the main characteristics of the regime with a focus on transactions involving non-resident entities.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/b36zfn

Keywords: contribution, participation, holding company, anti-avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Allena, Marco and Rossi, R., Special Tax Regime Applicable to Contributions of Controlling and "Qualifying" Participations in Italy: Recent Developments. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 2/3, Pages 78-83, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/b36zfn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
48
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies