Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Gone with the Fiscal Wind': The Success of Tax Breaks in Supporting the Film Industry

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 5, Pages 209-217

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pietro Mastellone

Independent

Abstract

The film industry lies at the crossroads between culture and business, essentially depending on direct public funding (subsidies, incentives, etc.) and, increasingly, indirect public funding (for example, tax breaks aimed at stimulating investment by private sponsors). In comparison to Hollywood, public funding is more relevant in Europe due to the smaller scale of the industry. This article highlights a new "era" of tax incentives aimed not only at providing financial resources but also promoting non-fiscal goals.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/21kdyjr

Keywords: film industry, tax incentive, tax credit

Suggested Citation:

Mastellone, Pietro, 'Gone with the Fiscal Wind': The Success of Tax Breaks in Supporting the Film Industry. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 5, Pages 209-217, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/21kdyjr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
67
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies