Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Selected Issues Regarding the New Italian Exit Tax Rules

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 354-359

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Luigi Caltagirone

Independent

R. Villa

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the authors analyse the extent to which the new Italian exit tax regime applies in the event of a qualified transfer of a branch of business characterized as the Italian permanent establishment of the foreign tax resident transferor, in relation to assets (and liabilities) that were not transferred but, at the same time, do not qualify (no longer qualify) as an Italian permanent establishment of the transferor.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1cq96dr

Keywords: exit tax, PE, transfer of business, transfer of assets, capital gains, residence, fundamental freedoms, non-discrimination

Suggested Citation:

Caltagirone, Luigi and Villa, R., Selected Issues Regarding the New Italian Exit Tax Rules. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 354-359, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1cq96dr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies