Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Germany's Latest Amendment to its Anti-Treaty-Directive Shopping Rules Fully Compliant with EU Law?

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 9, Pages 393-402

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Birhanu T. Daba

Independent

T. Engers

Independent

G-J. Hop

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors address the purpose and scope of section 50d(3) of the German Income Tax Act (the anti-treaty/directive shopping rules), the status of the current and previous versions of section 50d(3) and the impact of various ECJ and German court decisions. They then provide a comprehensive analysis of the revised version, which entered into force on 9 June 2021. Finally, the authors reflect on the implications of the revised section 50d(3) on holding companies.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/203qa4

Keywords: treaty shopping, income tax law, EU law, ECJ case law, case law, tax treaty, holding company

Suggested Citation:

Daba, Birhanu T. and Engers, T. and Hop, G-J., Is Germany's Latest Amendment to its Anti-Treaty-Directive Shopping Rules Fully Compliant with EU Law?. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 9, Pages 393-402, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/203qa4
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies