Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will Remote Working Mark the End of Substance Requirements?

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 252-262

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Fons Ravelli

Independent

A. Strik

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the authors explore the impact of cross-border remote working on the area of tax legislation. Specifically, they examine how substance requirements that deny certain tax benefits in respect of (allegedly) artificial situations, have been impacted by this development, with a particular focus on the dividend withholding tax exemption under the EU Parent-Subsidiary Directive (2011/96). They argue that the substance tests as currently applied in many EU Member States and as included in the draft Unshell Directive conflict with the freedom of establishment.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2egcrsv

Keywords: substance requirements, dividend withholding tax, exemption, Parent-Subsidiary Directive, Unshell Directive, fundamental freedoms, home office, residence, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Ravelli, Fons and Strik, A., Will Remote Working Mark the End of Substance Requirements?. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 252-262, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028890 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2egcrsv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
61
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies