Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italian Budget Law for 2021, Ucits and Refund Requests: Is There a Light at the End of the Tunnel?

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 7, Pages 319-322

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefano Guarino

Independent

A. Giglio

Independent

Abstract

The Budget Law for 2021 amends the Italian tax regime applicable to EU/EEA UCITS, which was unfavourable in comparison to the rules applicable to domestic UCITS. Concerns remain, however, regarding the retroactive application of the rules, as well as the path to be followed by taxpayers who want to submit a refund request. This note seeks to address these questions and provide useful guidance for foreign taxpayers.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1qjc0ch

Keywords: budget law, UCITS, domestic tax law, refund, ECJ case law, retroactivity, capital gains, dividend

Suggested Citation:

Guarino, Stefano and Giglio, A., Italian Budget Law for 2021, Ucits and Refund Requests: Is There a Light at the End of the Tunnel?. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 7, Pages 319-322, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1qjc0ch
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
55
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies