Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dac6 Implementation in Italy in Practice: A Further Complication of an Already Burdensome Regime?

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 242-250

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Gregorio Piran

Independent

F. Sartori

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors analyse some specific aspects of Italy's implementation of DAC6 based on guidance issued by the tax authorities that, in some instances, further complicate an already burdensome regime for taxpayers and intermediaries both in terms of the preliminary analysis that needs to be conducted and subsequent reporting. After commenting on the overall structure of the legislation, the article reflects on the interplay between the Italian regime and DAC6 in the context of specific and frequent routine business scenarios.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3h7rpf6

Keywords: DAC6, domestic tax law, mandatory disclosure, retroactivity, main benefit test, location savings

Suggested Citation:

Piran, Gregorio and Sartori, F., Dac6 Implementation in Italy in Practice: A Further Complication of an Already Burdensome Regime?. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 242-250, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3h7rpf6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies