Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Treatment of Real Estate Securitization in Italy in Light of Ruling No. 132 of 2 March 2021

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 366-368

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Alberto Trainotti

Independent

S. Fabbiano

Independent

Abstract

This note concerns the securitization of assets in Italy. In particular, the authors discuss the history of this increasingly popular financial tool; legislative amendments that have been made, over the years, to the tax regime applicable to securitization; the application of the regime to real estate; as well as a recent tax ruling that confirms, for practitioners, the overall tax treatment of real estate securitization.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2cpwwbr

Keywords: securitization, immovable property, domestic tax law, ruling

Suggested Citation:

Trainotti, Alberto and Fabbiano, S., The Tax Treatment of Real Estate Securitization in Italy in Light of Ruling No. 132 of 2 March 2021. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 366-368, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2cpwwbr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies