Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labyrinth of Choices in Respect of International Tax Dispute Resolution from a Netherlands Perspective

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 65-82

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Wiebe E. J. Dijkstra

Independent

F.P.G. Pötgens

Independent

P.A. Spijker

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors discuss the various options available for resolving international tax disputes from a Netherlands perspective. In particular, the article (i) describes the temporal, territorial and substantive scope of international proceedings; (ii) addresses the concurrence of multiple dispute resolution mechanisms; (iii) considers the legal position of the taxpayer; (iv) sets out possible outcomes; (v) describes possibilities to challenge a final decision; and comments on dispute resolution mechanisms in the context of the OECD Pillar One and Pillar Two proposals.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/tmp3n8

Keywords: dispute resolution, taxpayer, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), Tax Dispute Resolution Directive, Inclusive Framework (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Dijkstra, Wiebe E. J. and Pötgens, F.P.G. and Spijker, P.A., Labyrinth of Choices in Respect of International Tax Dispute Resolution from a Netherlands Perspective. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 2/3, Pages 65-82, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/tmp3n8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies