Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mechanisms for Defeating Tax Avoidance and Acts of Non-Compliance: The Obligation of the State and the International Community to Legitimate Reasonable Taxpayer Choices

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 255-262

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Grahame Jackson

Independent

Harriet Brown

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors comment on the tax contract between the state and taxpayers, i.e. the idea that citizens comply with tax law as part of a ?bargain? between the state and the populace. The authors outline the conditions that can lead to a high compliance environment. They highlight the OECD approach that all states should be included in international exchange and how this may interfere with the operation of the tax contract mechanism.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/eyqyf2

Keywords: tax compliance, tax avoidance, tax morale, exchange of information, human rights

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Brown, Harriet, The Mechanisms for Defeating Tax Avoidance and Acts of Non-Compliance: The Obligation of the State and the International Community to Legitimate Reasonable Taxpayer Choices. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 255-262, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/eyqyf2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
102
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies