Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Belgian Tax Procedures Reformed with Focus on International Tax Matters

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 169-172

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pieter-Jan Wouters

Independent

Abstract

As part of the Belgian government's plan to fight tax and social fraud, legislation was approved to provide the Belgian tax authorities with a much broader toolset for investigating taxpayers. The main pillar of this legislation is the extension of the standard tax assessment, investigation and retention periods. The extended statute of limitations ? which applies to both income taxes and VAT ? seems to focus on cross-border transactions in particular.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3q6768s

Keywords: procedural tax law, statute of limitations, international taxation, tax fraud, investigation, assessment, penalties, taxpayers' rights, European Convention on Human Rights

Suggested Citation:

Wouters, Pieter-Jan, Belgian Tax Procedures Reformed with Focus on International Tax Matters. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 169-172, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3q6768s
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
46
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies