Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Succession in Europe: Is the Elimination of Double Taxation Guaranteed?

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 487-491

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Djalel Maherzi

Independent

Abstract

The taxation of cross-border succession often leads to double taxation for European taxpayers. The limitation of conventional instruments in the field of inheritance taxation within the European area raises continuing questions about the nature and content of double taxation. The solutions provided, in particular by domestic law, do not seem to be sufficient.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3dmnjzc

Keywords: succession, inheritance tax, domestic tax law, double taxation, inheritance tax treaty, discrimination, fundamental freedoms, constitutional law, case law

Suggested Citation:

Maherzi, Djalel, Cross-Border Succession in Europe: Is the Elimination of Double Taxation Guaranteed?. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 487-491, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3dmnjzc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies