Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign-Dressed Companies: Freedom of Establishment Versus Place of Effective Management

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 176-178

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Michele Ferrari

Independent

G. Lanotte

Independent

Abstract

In the Supreme Court's decision of 9 March 2021, in Modlot International Holding SA (Case 6476), the old argument regarding a foreign-dressed company was resurrected. According to this position, the use of a foreign-dressed company does not necessarily abuse the freedom of establishment and tax residence should be determined in accordance with the territorial criteria provided in article 73 of the Italian Income Tax Consolidation Act.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2fd9wyc

Keywords: residence, case law, fundamental freedoms, place of effective management

Suggested Citation:

Ferrari, Michele and Lanotte, G., Foreign-Dressed Companies: Freedom of Establishment Versus Place of Effective Management. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 176-178, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2fd9wyc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
77
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies