Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Convergence and the Next Generation European Union

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 319-328

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Carlo Garbarino

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author describes the spontaneous convergence of COVID-related tax measures that occurred in 2020, which was closely followed, at the EU level, by a new recovery instrument, with far-reaching goals, denominated Next Generation EU. The author explains how the process of tax convergence was connected to a broader institutional process that has ?fiscal underpinnings? in the broadest sense, and draws conclusions on the innovative formula that emerged in this specific area of EU fiscal architecture.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1frs1rx

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, tax policy, cash flow, tax burden, legal certainty

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, Tax Convergence and the Next Generation European Union. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 319-328, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1frs1rx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies