Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Thoughts on the Treatment of Crypto Assets from an Italian Legal, Accounting and Tax Perspective

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 8, Pages 328-335

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ignazio La Candia

Independent

E. Catinari

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors analyse the legislation on crypto assets, focusing on the changes introduced by the Italian 2023 Finance Act, in light of the main international initiatives in the field (i.e. the OECD Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework (CARF) and the EU Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) Regulation). The Regulation adopted by the ECOFIN Council on 16 May 2023 constitutes the first piece of EU legislation intended to trace crypto asset transfers. It introduces specific rules on the prevention of market abuse, marking a clear departure from the past.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2vbdwm6

Keywords: CARF, MiCA, NFT, transfer of assets

Suggested Citation:

La Candia, Ignazio and Catinari, E., Some Thoughts on the Treatment of Crypto Assets from an Italian Legal, Accounting and Tax Perspective. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 8, Pages 328-335, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2vbdwm6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies