Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Advocate General's Opinions in the Fiat State Aid Case: Underestimating the Arm's Length Principle

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 459-469

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

David G. Chamberlain

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author undertakes a critical review of the Advocate General's two Opinions in the State aid case against Luxembourg's tax ruling regarding Fiat's finance subsidiary. He urged the Court of Justice to overturn the General Court's decision and annul the European Commission's decision. The Advocate General failed to appreciate the Commission's authority to rely on the arm's length principle regardless of whether that authority derives from Luxembourg's positive law or directly from EU competition law.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1xwjdgn

Keywords: EU Treaty, State aid, ECJ case law, arm's length principle, transfer pricing, advance tax ruling, CCCTB

Suggested Citation:

Chamberlain, David G., The Advocate General's Opinions in the Fiat State Aid Case: Underestimating the Arm's Length Principle. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 11, Pages 459-469, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1xwjdgn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies