Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Measures Introduced to Support the Economy Through the Covid-19 Pandemic: The Critical Role of Tax Advisers in Navigating the Benefits

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 1, Pages 45-48

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Hartmut Schwab

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the author outlines the details of Germany's stimulus package approved on 29 June 2020, which is the largest in history. He also looks at the unique role that has been given to tax advisers in the legislation to ensure that the requirements for claiming benefits have been met.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/vyx4s3

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, tax relief, tax adviser

Suggested Citation:

Schwab, Hartmut, Tax Measures Introduced to Support the Economy Through the Covid-19 Pandemic: The Critical Role of Tax Advisers in Navigating the Benefits. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 1, Pages 45-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/vyx4s3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies