Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combatting Abuse by Conduit Companies: The Doctrine of Abuse Under EU Law and its Influence on Tax Treaties

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 329-342

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Isabella de Groot

Independent

O.C.R. Marres

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors address the consequences of EU anti-abuse provisions and the EU anti-abuse principle on conduit companies and the application of tax treaties. Mainly due to the Danish cases, more guidelines are gradually being derived from case law in order to assess whether there is abuse in conduit situations. Those guidelines will probably also be important in applying tax treaties, for various reasons.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/34wsj2v

Keywords: abuse of law, conduit company, EU tax law, case law, treaty shopping, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Groot, Isabella de and Marres, O.C.R., Combatting Abuse by Conduit Companies: The Doctrine of Abuse Under EU Law and its Influence on Tax Treaties. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 329-342, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/34wsj2v
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
85
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies