Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Platforms as Intermediaries Under Simplified Tax Regimes: The Example of the Russian Professional Income Tax Regime

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 335-341

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Anna Vvedenskaya

Independent

Abstract

This article outlines the features of the Russian Professional Income Tax Regime and the role of the special app, the My Tax App, and intermediaries in respect of the regime. The app is used to automate and simplify the tax reporting process. Such platforms and tailor-made digital solutions, coupled with legislative support, play a significant role in tax compliance. Implementation of the app, however, has raised certain compliance, privacy and data protection concerns, as well as other policy issues that must be addressed.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vfgp2e

Keywords: income tax, tax compliance, intermediary, automation, tax technology, data protection

Suggested Citation:

Vvedenskaya, Anna, The Role of Platforms as Intermediaries Under Simplified Tax Regimes: The Example of the Russian Professional Income Tax Regime. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 8, Pages 335-341, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3vfgp2e
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
82
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies