Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cfe's Contribution to European Taxation's 60th Anniversary Issue: 60 Years of Tax Advisory Work in the Area of EU Tax Policy

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 12, Pages 553-555

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Aleksandar Ivanovski

Independent

B. McIntosh

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the CFE comments on 60 years of tax advisory work in the area of EU tax policy. The CFE emphasizes that effective cooperation between tax advisers implies a stronger impact on EU and international tax developments, and hence a more robust protection of taxpayer rights. This is particularly important in the face of the current challenges facing the tax advisory community, such as the digitalization of the economy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1rd8b62

Keywords: tax adviser, EU tax law, tax policy, history of taxation, taxpayers' rights

Suggested Citation:

Ivanovski, Aleksandar and McIntosh, B., The Cfe's Contribution to European Taxation's 60th Anniversary Issue: 60 Years of Tax Advisory Work in the Area of EU Tax Policy. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 12, Pages 553-555, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1rd8b62
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies