Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Domestic Excise Duties and the "Specific Purposes" Test: A Quasi-Harmonization Tale

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 2/3, Pages 84-90

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Alexandre Ferreira

Independent

Abstract

Similar to the VAT Directive (2006/112), the Excise Directive (2008/118) aims to harmonize excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and energy products within the European Union. For this reason, domestic excise duties on such goods are prohibited unless they pursue "specific purposes". This article explores the parameters established by the ECJ in assessing the compatibility of domestic excise duties with EU law from the standpoint of the "specific purposes" concept as enshrined in the Excise Directive.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1pvs5rn

Keywords: excise duty, VAT Directive, exemption, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Alexandre, Domestic Excise Duties and the "Specific Purposes" Test: A Quasi-Harmonization Tale. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 2/3, Pages 84-90, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1pvs5rn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies