Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dac6 in a Selection of EU Member States: The Practical Application of the Main Benefit Test and its Hallmarks

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 229-241

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

René Offermanns

Independent

R. Botelho Moniz

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors provide a survey of the practical application of the DAC6 main benefit test and its hallmarks in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. They examine the general features of this test and of its related hallmarks, followed by specificities of the interpretation of their practical application by the competent authorities of those countries, whenever applicable, considering typical structures.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2sdxr65

Keywords: DAC6, main benefit test, aggressive tax planning, tax transparency

Suggested Citation:

Offermanns, René and Moniz, R. Botelho, Dac6 in a Selection of EU Member States: The Practical Application of the Main Benefit Test and its Hallmarks. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 229-241, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2sdxr65
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies