Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Bulgarian Accounting and Tax Depreciation Methods with Select EU Member States

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 550-553

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Georgi Ranchev

Independent

Abstract

This note, after surveying the provisions of select EU Member States, outlines the specifics of tax depreciation rates for different kinds of assets in Bulgaria. Further, it compares tax depreciation to the depreciation schemes applied by companies following their own accounting policies. Special attention in the analysis is given to the effect of having differing depreciation schemes for tax and accounting purposes.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3nh0s1p

Keywords: accounting, corporate income tax, depreciation

Suggested Citation:

Ranchev, Georgi, A Comparison of Bulgarian Accounting and Tax Depreciation Methods with Select EU Member States. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 12, Pages 550-553, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3nh0s1p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies