Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Cross-Border Remote Work in Spain

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 147-153

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Cristina Puerta Ruiz de Azúa

Independent

T. Morales

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses the tax implications of cross-border remote working in Spain, for both the person working remotely from Spain and their non-resident employer. It highlights the tax incentives that posted workers may apply, in particular under the recently approved Start-Up Law, and the potential taxation and withholding obligations of employers. The risks of double taxation and overlapping tax obligations caused by the lack of international regulation of the taxation of remote work are also assessed.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/mk2kaa

Keywords: cross-border worker, remote working, tax incentive, residence, exemption, working abroad, tax treaty, PE, withholding tax

Suggested Citation:

Puerta Ruiz de Azúa, Cristina and Morales, T., Taxation of Cross-Border Remote Work in Spain. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 147-153, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/mk2kaa
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies