Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Cooperation between the European Union and China

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 159-168

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Diheng Xu

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author outlines the initiatives that are being taken to increase cooperation between China and the European Union, including the European Union-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment and China's Belt and Road Initiative. In particular, the author focusses on tax cooperation as a starting point for furthering cooperation in other areas, an example of which is the Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism (BRITACOM).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/204dx8

Keywords: tax authorities, investment treaty, tax treaty, tax competition, tax transparency, dispute resolution, BEPS Project (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Diheng, Tax Cooperation between the European Union and China. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 159-168, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/204dx8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies