Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Participation of Trusts in Tax Proceedings and Some Ideas on How to Complete Their Integration into the Italian Tax System

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 358-363

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Francesco Cannas

Independent

Abstract

This article addresses the transposition of the legal relationship known as a "trust" into Italy, a civil law system. It analyses how trusts participate in tax proceedings and the extent to which transposition, under the current legal framework, remains incomplete. The fact that it is the trustee rather than the trust that participates in certain proceedings potentially conflicts with the ability-to-pay principle. Finally, the author proposes that trusts should be treated as companies for tax proceeding purposes.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2s468nv

Keywords: participation, trust, domestic tax law

Suggested Citation:

Cannas, Francesco, The Participation of Trusts in Tax Proceedings and Some Ideas on How to Complete Their Integration into the Italian Tax System. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 8, Pages 358-363, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2s468nv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
56
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies