Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Proposed Unshell Directive: The Luxembourg and Netherlands Approach

European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 231-249

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

René Offermanns

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author presents the features of the Proposed Unshell Directive (COM(2021) 565 final) in the context of the existing legislative framework of Luxembourg and the Netherlands. In particular, the article focuses on the legislative measures taken by Luxembourg and the Netherlands in recent years to reduce the use of empty conduits and the perception of the Proposed Unshell Directive in those two countries.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1whe2qg

Keywords: Unshell Directive, conduit company, shell company, withholding tax, participation exemption, advance tax ruling, company law, investment treaty, substance requirements, ATAD, interest deduction, DAC6

Suggested Citation:

Offermanns, René, The Proposed Unshell Directive: The Luxembourg and Netherlands Approach. European Taxation: Vol. 62 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 231-249, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1whe2qg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
72
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies