Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Italy and Switzerland Sign New Agreement on Income Taxation of Frontier Workers: Initial Comments from an Italian Perspective

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 4, Pages 170-173

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pasquale Salvatore

Independent

R. Rossi

Independent

Abstract

In this note, the authors analyse - with a focus on the Italian tax implications - the new provisions regulating the income taxation of "frontier workers" in the amending Protocol to the Italy-Switzerland Income and Capital Tax Treaty (1976) and the related implementing Agreement, both signed on 23 December 2020. Once the ratification procedure is completed, the new provisions will substantially update a well-established regulatory framework dating back to the mid-1970s.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1ty6j6f

Keywords: cross-border worker, tax treaty, employment income, allocation of taxing rights

Suggested Citation:

Salvatore, Pasquale and Rossi, R., Italy and Switzerland Sign New Agreement on Income Taxation of Frontier Workers: Initial Comments from an Italian Perspective. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 4, Pages 170-173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1ty6j6f
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies