Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of the Atad Rules on Controlled Foreign Companies: A Nordic Member State Perspective

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 425-439

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Peter Koerver Schmidt

Independent

D. Kleist

Independent

J. Lindgren

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses the implementation of the controlled foreign company (CFC) rules in the ATAD in the Nordic Member States. In addition to comparing the amended CFC regimes of Sweden, Finland and Denmark, the authors discuss their relationship with EU primary law and the expected impact of the OECD's work on Pillar Two. Although material differences between the CFC regimes still exist, the authors find the ATAD to be a step in the right direction.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/27z7mwv

Keywords: tax avoidance, ATAD, CFC, EU tax law, Pillar 2 (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Koerver Schmidt, Peter and Kleist, D. and Lindgren, J., Implementation of the Atad Rules on Controlled Foreign Companies: A Nordic Member State Perspective. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 425-439, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/27z7mwv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies