Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Protection of Tax Debtors in Respect of Cross-Border Use of Precautionary Measures to Guarantee Tax Recovery

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 258-263

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ilse De Troyer

Independent

Abstract

The ECJ recently issued two decisions on cross-border administrative assistance for the recovery of taxes (Heavyinstall (Case C-420/19) and Silcompa (Case C-95/19)). This new line of case law not only answers certain questions regarding the interpretation of the EU Recovery Directive (2010/24), but also raises new questions concerning, in particular, the legal protection of the taxpayer in the face of cross-border requests for precautionary measures to guarantee the recovery of non-final tax claims.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2cz7cr6

Keywords: ECJ case law, recovery of tax, enforcement, Tax Recovery Directive, legal protection, taxpayers' rights, justification

Suggested Citation:

De Troyer, Ilse, Legal Protection of Tax Debtors in Respect of Cross-Border Use of Precautionary Measures to Guarantee Tax Recovery. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 6, Pages 258-263, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2cz7cr6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies