Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dac8: Commentary on the European Union's New Crypto Tax Reporting Regime

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 377-386

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Max Bernt

Independent

Abstract

This article contains an overview and commentary on the final draft of DAC8 (i.e. the Presidency compromise text of the Draft Council Directive amending Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation), which, at the time of writing, had not yet been formally adopted or published in the Official Journal. The article was drafted mainly on the basis of relevant documents provided by the European Commission. In some respects, however, the article reflects the author's own opinion; where this is not evident from the text, it is clearly stated.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1cqgwag

Keywords: DAC8, reporting requirements, CARF, data protection, automatic exchange of information, tax compliance, penalties, high net worth individual, advance tax ruling

Suggested Citation:

Bernt, Max, Dac8: Commentary on the European Union's New Crypto Tax Reporting Regime. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 9, Pages 377-386, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1cqgwag
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies