Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Taxation with Regard to German Inheritance and Gift Tax

European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 461-468

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Philippe Linseis

Independent

Abstract

This article provides a comprehensive analysis of double taxation in the field of German inheritance and gift tax. It closes a gap in the literature, as most double taxation scholarship centres on income tax. The article examines the phenomena of double taxation from a legal, as well as economic, perspective. After surveying international literature in this area, the article describes how double taxation in the field of inheritance and gift tax is avoided in Germany unilaterally by crediting foreign inheritance and gift tax against German tax liabilities. Finally, the article comments on the Germany-United States Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty (1980). The conclusion of the article is that the avoidance of double taxation is inconsistent, causing different taxation results in comparable cases, which conflicts with the principle of equality.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3zv2gw0

Keywords: tax treaty, inheritance tax treaty, inheritance tax, gift tax, double taxation, equal treatment, case law

Suggested Citation:

Linseis, Philippe, Double Taxation with Regard to German Inheritance and Gift Tax. European Taxation: Vol. 63 (2023), Issue 11, Pages 461-468, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3zv2gw0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies