Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconsidering Citizenship Taxation

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2024-69

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2024-34

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2024-16

Forthcoming in Taxing People: The Next One Hundred Years, (Tsilly Dagan & Ruth Mason, eds.), Cambridge University Press

16 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 4 Jul 2025

Tsilly Dagan

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: January 01, 2024

Abstract

The pressures of globalization undermine the ability of states to collect taxes and pursue distributive justice. Free movement and other opportunities for people to engage with different jurisdictions on a personal and economic level are essential for liberty. But unrestrained market competition between states to provide the world’s wealthiest and most skilled a fragment of the social contract in exchange for a reduction in their tax obligations imperils the welfare state.

If the duty to pay taxes for redistribution exists within self-defining communities, then our new world of multiple and partial community allegiances raises fundamental questions. People are increasingly mobile, frequently live outside their state of nationality, and interact with multiple jurisdictions in a variety of ways. Although what constitutes membership may be decided by each such community independently, human mobility and interstate competition erode the ability of a single community, acting alone, to enforce its view of membership. As the community loses the ability to define itself and to bind people it considers members to that choice, the community also loses the material support it needs to sustain itself. In such a world, the very definition of community becomes subject to the rules of supply and demand, under which diverging elasticities and the relative attractiveness of both jurisdictions and taxpayers become paramount.

The strongest states may be able to overcome these challenges unilaterally with the aid of citizenship taxation. We emphasize, however, that the United States may remain an outlier in assessing citizenship taxation. US citizenship has proved extremely sticky, and therefore capable of sustaining a lightly administered form of citizenship taxation characterized by toleration for what is presumed to be widespread noncompliance. But weaker and less attractive states may be unable to sustain even a limited form of citizenship taxation, and they may therefore lose their tax base as they lose residents.  

A cooperative accord on the global level could tame some interstate competition over migrants. Such a global accord would, however, face difficulties, including setting the desirable balance between personal liberty and community responsibility; determining the duty of justice between states; and defining the procedures that will determine the arrangements. States would also face accountability, legitimacy, and practical difficulties in implementing any such arrangements. These difficulties should not be underestimated, yet overcoming them is one of the challenges of the next 100 years of taxing people.

Suggested Citation:

Dagan, Tsilly and Mason, Ruth, Reconsidering Citizenship Taxation (January 01, 2024). Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2024-69, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2024-34, Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2024-16, Forthcoming in Taxing People: The Next One Hundred Years, (Tsilly Dagan & Ruth Mason, eds.), Cambridge University Press, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5029551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5029551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Imf , A Ruud , Alexander D De Mooij , Victoria J Klemm , Perry
Some would simply advise developing countries not to sign BTTs
Sebastien Leduc & Geerten Michielse, Are Tax Treaties Worth It for Developing Economies? in CORPORATE INCOME TAXES UNDER PRESSURE: WHY REFORM IS NEEDED AND HOW IT COULD BE DESIGNED , p. 72 - 119 Posted: 2014
See Tsilly , Dagan
Globe: The Potential Costs of Cooperation
INTERTAX , volume 51 Posted: 2023
Parada , W Haslehner
Global Minimum Taxation: A Strategic Approach for Developing Countries
Rita de la Feria, The Perceived (Un)Fairness of the Global Minimum Corporate Tax Rate in THE PILLAR 2 GLOBAL MINIMUM TAX , volume 188 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
274,135
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies