Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rotten to the Core: The EU's Court of Justice Decision in Apple

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2024-68

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2024-33

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2024-15

TAX NOTES INTERNATIONAL, VOLUME 116, pp. 987-1007,  NOVEMBER 11, 2024 

21 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Stephen Daly

King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

This article takes an in-depth look at the deeply flawed EU Court of Justice decision in the Apple state aid case. We discuss whether any legitimate legal theory could have supported the Commission's retroactive application of the 2010 Authorized OECD Approach (AOA) to Ireland's tax ruling for Apple, and if so, whether a proper interpretation of the AOA would have required Ireland to allocate most of Apple's global income to Ireland, despite ample evidence of Apple's substantial US activities. We also consider the General Court's decision and whether the Court of Justice's failure to apply relevant precedents, including Fiat, Amazon, and Engie, reasonably can be attributed to the sometimes-categorization of the Court of Justice as a civil law court. We also consider implications of the Court of Justice decision for similar Irish tax structures, and we review three alternative theories of the case, under which the Commission and EU courts could have enforced the state aid rules within the bounds of precedent and due process. We also explain the role that Irish and U.S. tax law combined to play in facilitating Apple’s tax planning. Finally, we speculate as to the implications of the Apple decision for international tax relations, especially between the United States and the European Union.

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Ruth and Daly, Stephen, Rotten to the Core: The EU's Court of Justice Decision in Apple (November 11, 2024). Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2024-68, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2024-33, Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2024-15, TAX NOTES INTERNATIONAL, VOLUME 116, pp. 987-1007,  NOVEMBER 11, 2024 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5029464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5029464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,054
RANK
78,964
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies