Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Defending U.S. Citizenship-Based Taxation in Theory and in Practice: An Essay on Fiscal Citizenship in a FATCA World

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-45

Cardozo L. Rev. (forthcoming)

154 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2024

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

U.S. taxation of its citizens living abroad is better in practice and sounder in theory than the critics maintain. While the U.S. is the only nation which uses legal citizenship to tax the worldwide incomes of its citizens living abroad, other nations’ residence-based tax systems also often reach extraterritorially by taxing the worldwide incomes of overseas citizens as continuing residents of their home countries. U.S. citizenship-based taxation reaches similar results more efficiently by avoiding factually complex determinations of individuals’ domiciles or residences. When opponents of current law call for the U.S. to adopt residence-based taxation, they do not acknowledge the extent to which existing residence-based tax systems in practice also tax citizens living abroad extraterritorially on their worldwide incomes by deeming them to still reside in their respective home nation.


Moreover, under Section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code, the U.S. abates its taxation of its citizens living abroad through a generous and unique exclusion for foreign earned income in addition to the income tax credit available to all U.S. taxpayers for foreign income tax paid on foreign-source income.
The upshot of this exclusion and credit is that, in practice, relatively few U.S. citizens living abroad actually owe net taxes to the U.S. Those who do tend to be more affluent individuals, not rank-and-file taxpayers. While the critics deploy the label “unique” as a term of disapproval, the U.S. exclusion from income taxation of its overseas citizens’ foreign earned compensation is uniquely taxpayer friendly in comparison with the tax laws of other nations. Just as the critics of U.S. law understate the extent to which other nations’ residence-based tax systems often tax the worldwide incomes of their citizens who living abroad, the critics of U.S. law tend to slight the Section 911 exclusion.


Good does not mean perfect. Critics of the status quo validly point to flaws in current law as it taxes U.S. overseas citizens. The critics cite these flaws to further their argument that the U.S. should abolish citizenship-based taxation. In contrast, I observe that these flaws are remediable. These defects in current law should not be used as excuses to abandon citizenship-based taxation. Rather, these flaws can and should be corrected to improve the equity, efficiency and administrability of the United States’ taxation of its citizens who live abroad.


On a theoretical level, the United States’ citizenship-based taxation compellingly implements what tax scholars increasingly designate as “fiscal citizenship,” “contributing one’s appropriate share – however modest – toward the financing of the political community of which one is a member.” Other nation’s income taxes define such membership via domicile or residence. From the vantage of fiscal citizenship, an individual’s permanent home is a political community to which that individual, by virtue of his membership in that community, owes an obligation of tax support in accordance with his ability to pay wherever that individual may live. A U.S. citizen who lives abroad is, by virtue of her U.S. citizenship, a member of the national political community of the United States. As a normative matter of fiscal citizenship, this overseas citizen (like a citizen living at home) is properly called upon to support that community through her tax payments based on her total, worldwide income.



Keywords: citizenship-based taxation, overseas citizen, residence, domicile, fiscal citizenship, FATCA, foreign tax credit, Section 911 exclusion, tax treaties, qualified deferred compensation, nonqualified deferred compensation, FBAR, exit taxation

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., Defending U.S. Citizenship-Based Taxation in Theory and in Practice: An Essay on Fiscal Citizenship in a FATCA World (November 01, 2024). Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2024-45, Cardozo L. Rev. (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5033405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5033405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
117 The net effect of these provisions is progressive, focusing U.S. exit taxation upon former U.S. citizens with significant incomes or assets. A U.S. citizen of modest economic circumstances is excluded from the coverage of the U.S. exit tax provided that he has complied with U.S. tax law for the prior five years. In addition, the U.S. exit tax (unlike the Australian and Canadian exit levies) contains a generous exemption for constructive sales of appreciated property
Internal Revenue Code § , volume 877 , issue 3 Posted: 2024
U S C
, volume 877
Proc. 2023-34, 2023-48 IRB 1287
Internal Revenue Code § § , volume 877 , issue 1
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,610
RANK
381,120
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies