Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Violation of the Principle of Neutrality: Provision of a Vehicle to an Employee

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 37-41

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Wei Zhang

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the strict interpretation of the term “rent” in the ECJ case QM (Case C-288/19). He analyses the possibility that the transaction is subject to VAT where the customer resides only when the employee pays rent in money, otherwise the transaction would be subject to VAT where the supplier resides. The author considers that it seems inappropriate and against the meaning and purpose of the VAT Directive to tax hiring (rent) of a means of transport differently depending on the existence of a remuneration in money.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1bbc3hz

Keywords: VAT, ECJ case law, neutrality principle, company car, rent, services, consideration

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Wei, Violation of the Principle of Neutrality: Provision of a Vehicle to an Employee. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 37-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1bbc3hz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies