Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vat Wrongly Charged by the Supplier and Right of the Customer to Deduct, from an Italian and EU Perspective: Where are We?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 133-141

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Aldo Bisioli

Independent

M. Zanetti

Independent

Abstract

A very common issue in the economic relationships between suppliers and customers is the application of excessive VAT in the invoices issued by the former to the latter. Since 2017, Italian VAT legislation has provided that the customer has the right to deduct the tax applied “in excess of the effective amount” in such cases, provided that such VAT has been paid by the supplier to the Italian tax authorities, outside a context of tax fraud. The customer will, however, be subject to a fixed, non-proportional, penalty. In this article, the authors seek to illustrate how the application of the principles of “neutrality”, “effectiveness” and “proportionality” established by the case law of the ECJ could lead to a possible application of the said provision, not only in cases where a higher VAT rate was applied in a taxable transaction, but more generally where undue VAT has been charged to the customer (and so also in transactions that are exempt – with or without right to deduction – or outside the scope of VAT).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28rq9hn

Keywords: VAT, VAT deduction, VAT fraud, penalties, neutrality principle, effectiveness principle, proportionality, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Bisioli, Aldo and Zanetti, M., Vat Wrongly Charged by the Supplier and Right of the Customer to Deduct, from an Italian and EU Perspective: Where are We?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 133-141, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28rq9hn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies