Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
“Cashless Taxpayer”: An Innovative Tool to Stimulate Reduction of the Shadow Economy in Poland

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 7-17

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Jan Sarnowski

Independent

P. Selera

Independent

Abstract

Promoting electronic payments and a cashless economy is an important factor in reducing the shadow economy, increasing VAT collection and reducing VAT fraud. Starting from 1 January 2022, Poland joins pioneer countries in constructing tax incentives for cashless payments. So-called “cashless taxpayers” gain a very important advantage: the refund of VAT in 15 days. Poland puts technological tools at the taxable persons’ disposal that, without involving them, will verify whether they have met the criteria for the application of the preferential tax refund scheme on the basis of the data submitted online to the tax administration. Thanks to new technologies and the digitalization of the Polish tax administration such ambitious programmes are possible.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3z4jfcz

Keywords: VAT, tax gap, shadow economy, tax technology, tax incentive, VAT refund, VAT fraud, tax authorities

Suggested Citation:

Sarnowski, Jan and Selera, P., “Cashless Taxpayer”: An Innovative Tool to Stimulate Reduction of the Shadow Economy in Poland. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 7-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3z4jfcz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies