Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainties Related to the Autonomous Concept of “Ancillary Transactions”

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 169-173

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Natalia Șvidchi

Independent

Abstract

In its judgment delivered in AJFP Caraş-Severin and DGRFP Timişoara (Case C-716/18), the European Court of Justice (ECJ) has interpreted for the first time the notion of “ancillary transactions”, employed in article 288(4) of the VAT Directive. In defining this autonomous notion, the ECJ seems to indicate that a contextual link should be established with the usual business activity of the taxable person, rather than an actual one, in terms of substance. Although the practical aspects of this judgment might be limited, in this article the author argues that its importance should not be underappreciated, considering the increasing number of the economic activities carried out by the small enterprises, lato sensu, benefiting from the special VAT scheme.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28w8cr

Keywords: VAT, VAT exemption, SME, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Șvidchi, Natalia, Uncertainties Related to the Autonomous Concept of “Ancillary Transactions”. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 169-173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28w8cr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
78
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies