Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deduction of Import Vat: Relevance of Ownership as of Importation?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 2, Pages 75-80

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Thomas Bieber

Independent

L. Gläser

Independent

Abstract

Some tax administrations and tax courts of EU Member States require that taxable persons claiming import VAT deduction had power of disposal over the goods as of their importation. Based on recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the authors demonstrate that, contrary to this view, any taxable person presenting customs import documents specifying him as consignee or importer of goods should be entitled to import VAT deduction if he is either the owner of the goods (or obtains the right to dispose of the goods as owner) or, alternatively, can prove that “the cost of the input services is incorporated either in the cost of particular output transactions or in the cost of goods or services supplied by the taxable person as part of his economic activities”.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1z4a9f3

Keywords: VAT, import, deductions, ECJ case law, customs duty, VAT Directive

Suggested Citation:

Bieber, Thomas and Gläser, L., Deduction of Import Vat: Relevance of Ownership as of Importation?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 2, Pages 75-80, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1z4a9f3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies