Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory E-Invoicing from 2024: Key Features of the System and European Background

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 229-235

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Paweł Selera

Independent

Abstract

The National Electronic Invoicing System – commonly referred to as e-invoicing – is the next stage of the digitization of VAT obligations in Poland. After two years of operation of a voluntary system, from 2024, e-invoicing will be mandatory in Poland. Poland will then be the second EU Member State (after Italy) implementing mandatory e-invoicing in B2B relations.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3zg2ezc

Keywords: VAT, electronic invoicing, tax gap, collection of tax, tax technology, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Selera, Paweł, Mandatory E-Invoicing from 2024: Key Features of the System and European Background. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 229-235, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3zg2ezc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies