Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Does the EU Vat Actually Tax?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 2, Pages 91-100

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Christian Amand

Independent

Abstract

The EU VAT system does not tax every type of consumption. Conversely, socially desirable services and financial services are only taxed on their production. From the structure of the EU VAT system and the objectives of the EU treaties, but also from the ECJ case law and empirical observations, it appears that the EU VAT is intended not to tax production as far it has an impact on cross-border transactions in an internal market. Therefore, “single general sales tax” or GST would be an appellation closer of the reality of this tax system.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/m1z0k5

Keywords: VAT, cross-border transaction, ECJ case law, GST

Suggested Citation:

Amand, Christian, What Does the EU Vat Actually Tax?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 2, Pages 91-100, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/m1z0k5
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies