Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Zero Rating and the (Un)Certainty of Conditions Imposed to Qualify for Relief

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 165-167

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Soo How Koh

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the related decisions of the Singapore GST Board of Review and the Singapore High Court, both of which allowed the zero rating treatment of the exports of goods even though the taxpayer did not fully satisfy the export documentation guidelines prescribed by the tax authority for zero rating relief. The courts ruled that the tax authority has to take the necessary steps to determine whether the goods were exported and the taxpayer was entitled to rely on the specific directions that were previously issued to the taxpayer for the zero rating treatment to apply even though the specific directions differed from the guidelines.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/yd1vz9

Keywords: VAT, GST, zero rate, export, case law

Suggested Citation:

Koh, Soo How, Zero Rating and the (Un)Certainty of Conditions Imposed to Qualify for Relief. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 165-167, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034226 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/yd1vz9
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
85
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies