Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Complexities of Marketing in EU Vat

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 262-266

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Javier Sánchez Gallardo

Independent

G. Echevarría Zubeldia

Independent

Abstract

The promotion of goods and services within the European Union has VAT implications that are not sufficiently well known, either because this is an area with rich ECJ case law that is hard to grasp, because it is not a direct revenue-generating stream or perhaps because of both reasons. In this article, the authors provide an overview of the most complex VAT marketing issues, such as functional and volume rebates, global discounts, free supplies and loyalty programmes, with the aim of allowing practitioners to learn enough about the tax implications of these programmes to enhance the tax controls around them.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/250m0fg

Keywords: VAT, supply (VAT), ECJ case law, VAT deduction, voucher

Suggested Citation:

Sánchez Gallardo, Javier and Echevarría Zubeldia, G., The Complexities of Marketing in EU Vat. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 262-266, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/250m0fg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies