Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Canadian Indirect Tax Landscape for Foreign Suppliers of Goods to Canadian Consumers (B2c)

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 143-147

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Pierre-Andre Cyr

Independent

L. Moons

Independent

Abstract

The rise of the digital economy has forced lawmakers to adapt their indirect tax framework to ensure that foreign and local businesses would operate on an even playing field and that goods and services would be taxed within their country of consumption. With that in mind, some features of indirect tax regimes had to be reconsidered, such as import VAT/GST exemptions on low-value goods, along with VAT/GST registration requirement for non-resident suppliers of goods and services to local consumers. In this article, the authors address the 2021 Canadian GST/HST digital economy reform, analyse how it compares with the OECD recommendations and provide some key insights for foreign suppliers of goods to Canadian consumers who try to navigate the current Canadian indirect tax landscape.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2b9jk49

Keywords: digital economy, indirect tax, import, GST, home state taxation, e-commerce, VAT exemption

Suggested Citation:

Cyr, Pierre-Andre and Moons, L., The Canadian Indirect Tax Landscape for Foreign Suppliers of Goods to Canadian Consumers (B2c). International VAT Monitor: Vol. 34 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 143-147, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2b9jk49
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies