Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Concentrix Service Netherlands S.V.: Most Favoured Nation Cause in India's Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Dinesh Verma

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author reviews the legal provisions and relevant court decisions relating to the most favoured nation clause in India’s double taxation avoidance agreements (DTAAs). He traces the origin and evolution of this clause in India’s DTAAs and discusses an important dispute that arose in the application of this clause and the position of the courts on the issue. He concludes that even though some courts have decided the issue relating to invocation of MFN clauses in favour of the residents of other contracting states, the position is far from settled.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/gdfwn6

Keywords: case law, MFN, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Dinesh, Concentrix Service Netherlands S.V.: Most Favoured Nation Cause in India's Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/gdfwn6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
86
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies