Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Court Decision in General Motors Uruguay: The Importance of Marketing Intangibles, Local Market Characteristics and Local Comparables in a Comparability Analysis

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 293-296

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

María José Santos

Independent

Abstract

December 2021, the first court case in Uruguay on the application of the current transfer pricing regulations was concluded. After a thorough functional analysis and providing voluminous evidence of more than 11.000 sheets, the tax administration succeeded in demonstrating the existence of marketing intangibles in the transaction under analysis. The judgment in this case recognizes the importance of local market characteristics as relevant comparability factors that have to be taken into account in the comparability analysis, especially in circumstances in which there is publicly available information on national enterprises that perform similar activities to the taxpayer.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1zhb21s

Keywords: transfer pricing, case law, tax authorities, intangibles

Suggested Citation:

Santos, María José, Court Decision in General Motors Uruguay: The Importance of Marketing Intangibles, Local Market Characteristics and Local Comparables in a Comparability Analysis. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 293-296, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037210 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1zhb21s
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
63
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies