Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supreme Administrative Court Decision on Intra-Group Services Involving the Stock Spirit Group

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 311-317

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Xeniya Yeroshenko

Independent

Abstract

This article provides some insights into the methodological approach of the Czech judiciary in the example of the Stock Spirits Group case involving intra-group services, including consulting services remunerated with a feature resembling a profit split method, charges made for support services and the recharge of services from third parties related to the refinancing of the loan. The key issue of dispute was the burden of proof on the taxpayer to establish that the services can be deducted for tax purposes, rather than the specific transfer pricing methodology.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/35va9bz

Keywords: transfer pricing, intra-group services, expenses, deductions, profit split method, burden of proof, case law

Suggested Citation:

Yeroshenko, Xeniya, Supreme Administrative Court Decision on Intra-Group Services Involving the Stock Spirit Group. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 311-317, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/35va9bz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies