Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Luxury Fashion and Transfer Pricing: Ip Owners, Distributors, Supply Chain and Digitalization at the Beginning of a New Era

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Giuseppe Abatista

Independent

Abstract

High profitability, worldwide physical presence and strong leverage on intangibles make the luxury fashion businesses ideal targets for transfer pricing scrutiny. The industry dynamics are rapidly transforming, with digital revolution and younger customer base being the main factors. New transfer pricing issues are already adding to the existing ones: progressive lack of comparables due to expansion along the supply chain, double taxation remedies still costly and slow, increasing interest in APAs as the only viable solution to secure transfer pricing risk.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3t9zze1

Keywords: transfer pricing, intangibles, supply chain, digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Abatista, Giuseppe, Luxury Fashion and Transfer Pricing: Ip Owners, Distributors, Supply Chain and Digitalization at the Beginning of a New Era. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3t9zze1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies