Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Korea's Beneficial Owner Rules: Implications of the Amendment to the Special Deeming Rule for Overseas Investment Vehicles

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Kyu Dong Kim

Independent

E. Jin

Independent

Abstract

Foreign investors wishing to apply a reduced tax rate or tax exemption under Korea’s tax treaties must determine whether they qualify as the “beneficial owner” of the relevant Korean-sourced income. For foreign fund investors who hold Korean investments indirectly via one or more offshore special purpose vehicles (SPVs), the beneficial owner analysis can be much more complex as they also need to consider the potential application of the special deeming rule for overseas investment vehicles (OIVs). This article provides an overview of Korea’s beneficial owner rules with a particular focus on the recently amended special deeming rule for OIVs. It also aims to shed some light on aspects of the beneficial owner rules that should be considered by foreign funds investing in, and deriving income from, Korea, through intermediated structures using one or more offshore SPVs.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2txytw1

Keywords: tax treaty, beneficial ownership, foreign investment, offshore activity

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Kyu Dong and Jin, E., Korea's Beneficial Owner Rules: Implications of the Amendment to the Special Deeming Rule for Overseas Investment Vehicles. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2023), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2txytw1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies