Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Transfer Pricing Guidance in the Netherlands on Intra-Group Pricing of Financial Transactions: An Analysis of Potential Implications

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 39-44

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

D. M. Brouwers

Independent

S.P. de Buck

Independent

Abstract

The authors analyse the impact of the new 2022 Dutch transfer pricing decree on financial transactions and specifically on the pricing of intra-group loans and financial services companies (so-called financial intermediaries). Particular attention is paid to the role of control over financial risks and the concept of financial capacity. The analysis reveals several attention points that can have an immediate and significant impact on taxpayers involved in such financial intra-group transactions.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2s1hkcy

Keywords: transfer pricing, intra-group financing, intermediary, arm's length principle, substance requirements, control

Suggested Citation:

Brouwers, D. M. and Buck, S.P. de, New Transfer Pricing Guidance in the Netherlands on Intra-Group Pricing of Financial Transactions: An Analysis of Potential Implications. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 39-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2s1hkcy
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies