Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Belgian Court of Appeal Wipes the Floor with Ambulatory Use of 2017 Transfer Pricing Guidelines: But Not Without Testing the Tax Authorities’ Dempe Function Analysis

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 81-89

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Bob Michel

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author analyses a case decided by the Belgian Court of Appeal (Ghent) on 8 June 2021, which concerns the application of the DEMPE functional analysis by the Belgian tax authorities on a patent developed and exploited by a Belgian group of companies. The decision and the analysis focus on two questions: first, whether the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines (2017) of which the DEMPE functional analysis forms a crucial new addition can be applied dynamically to facts that took place before their adoption; and secondly, whether the tax authorities’ DEMPE functional analysis in the case at hand was correct.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/xggxc8

Keywords: transfer pricing, case law, patent, intangibles, DEMPE, functional analysis, tax authorities, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Michel, Bob, Belgian Court of Appeal Wipes the Floor with Ambulatory Use of 2017 Transfer Pricing Guidelines: But Not Without Testing the Tax Authorities’ Dempe Function Analysis. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 81-89, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/xggxc8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
111
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies