Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the Arm's Length Principle to High-Risk and Low-Risk Financing/Treasury Entities: A Case Study

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 173-181

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Timo Prokoph

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses how the Transfer Pricing Guidance for Financial Transactions are implemented in German law and the new Administrative Principles on Transfer Pricing 2021 and in which points they may differ. In this respect, it first considers the arm’s length test of transfer prices for financial transactions within the group according to the OECD and compares the result with the new Administrative Principles on Transfer Pricing 2021. As a second step, a case study is presented that exemplifies the divergences between the German administrative interpretation and the international standards of the OECD.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/37wq0h0

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, intercompany loan, cash pooling, risk

Suggested Citation:

Prokoph, Timo, Applying the Arm's Length Principle to High-Risk and Low-Risk Financing/Treasury Entities: A Case Study. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 173-181, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/37wq0h0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
116
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies