Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing in Brazil: Practical Aspects in the Adaptation of the Arm's Length Standard

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 268-274

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Eli van Exel

Independent

F. Lisboa Moreira

Independent

T.A. Wiertsema

Independent

Abstract

Brazilian taxpayers need to comply with new OECD-based transfer pricing rules as of financial years starting on or after 1 January 2024. They are also allowed to apply the new rules for financial years starting on or after 1 January 2023, if they choose for “early adoption” later this calendar year. This article outlines the practical impact of the new rules for Brazilian taxpayers, based on its underlying concepts and a case study including intra-group transactions that Brazilian taxpayers are commonly engaged in. In addition, the authors aim to illustrate some key considerations, opportunities, and risks of the upcoming decision whether to adopt early.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/sp2910

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, risk assessment, comparability analysis

Suggested Citation:

Exel, Eli van and Moreira, F. Lisboa and Wiertsema, T.A., Transfer Pricing in Brazil: Practical Aspects in the Adaptation of the Arm's Length Standard. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 268-274, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/sp2910
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies