Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is a Distributor a Trader or a Service Provider for Sales Tax Purposes: An Unnecessary Dilemma

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 3

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Najeeb Memon

Independent

Abstract

The sales tax jurisdiction in Pakistan is split between the federal government and the provinces – the federal government taxes the sale of goods, while the provinces impose sales tax on the provision of services. A recent judgment of the Sindh High Court overturned the general definition of services for sales tax purposes, which has resulted in chaos – the redoing of accounting for years-old transactions and the unleashing of litigation between two tiers of government entangling various taxpayers. This paper aims to critically analyse the court decision in the context of relevant literature and legislation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vt7brg

Keywords: sales tax, services, federal tax, provincial tax, domestic tax law, case law

Suggested Citation:

Memon, Najeeb, Is a Distributor a Trader or a Service Provider for Sales Tax Purposes: An Unnecessary Dilemma. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3vt7brg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
116
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies