Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalization of the Economy: The Calculation of the Effective Tax Rate: Pillar Two Versus Financial Accounting

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Tjeerd van den Berg

Independent

M. Kriek

Independent

Y. Than

Independent

Abstract

Under Pillar Two, the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting members have agreed to enact a jurisdictional-level minimum tax system with a minimum effective tax rate of 15%. Multinational enterprises and EU-based large-scale purely domestic groups with (global) consolidated turnover above EUR 750 million will be within the scope of Pillar Two. In this article, the authors discuss the relevant rules for calculating the effective tax rate (ETR) under Pillar Two. Subsequently, the authors will compare these rules with the rules that are applied to calculate the ETR under financial accounting. The main aim of this article is to set out the key differences between the ETR calculation under Pillar Two and financial accounting. For the comparison, the authors take the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as the applicable accounting standard under financial accounting.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xxwtr6

Keywords: transfer pricing, Pillar 2 (OECD), Inclusive Framework (OECD), BEPS, IIR (OECD), UTPR (OECD), effective tax rate, minimum tax, MNE, digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Berg, Tjeerd van den and Kriek, M. and Than, Y., Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalization of the Economy: The Calculation of the Effective Tax Rate: Pillar Two Versus Financial Accounting. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2xxwtr6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies