Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing of Trademark: Valuation of Trademark: The Finnish Approach: Part Ii

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 55-60

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Katriina Pankakoski

Independent

Abstract

This article is the second of a two-part article and focuses on determining the transfer price for a trademark from the Finnish perspective. The aim of such pricing should be a fiscally acceptable valuation outcome. The valuation of a trademark in transfer pricing is a multi-stage process that requires a broad and in-depth valuation perspective. This article considers the transfer pricing of a trademark from a theoretical and practical perspective by taking into account all the relevant factors that affect the transfer price. It concludes with interpretative statements on how the arm’s length principle should be approached in the transfer pricing of a trademark, taking into account the legal restrictions set by the national legal order determined in Part I of this article.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1d787ak

Keywords: transfer pricing, trademark, valuation, arm's length principle, legality principle, domestic tax law, OECD Model

Suggested Citation:

Pankakoski, Katriina, Transfer Pricing of Trademark: Valuation of Trademark: The Finnish Approach: Part Ii. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 55-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1d787ak
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
70
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies