Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Aspects of Sanctions Against Countries

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 241-246

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Matteo Cataldi

Independent

M. Severi

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses the transfer pricing aspects of extraordinary government policies such as those that have been recently implemented in response to the Russian-Ukraine conflict. The article offers an overview of the guidelines provided in this respect by the OECD and of the areas where multinational enterprises may need to take actions because of the current restrictive government measures.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/p4mqd4

Keywords: transfer pricing, tax policy, tax authorities

Suggested Citation:

Cataldi, Matteo and Severi, M., Transfer Pricing Aspects of Sanctions Against Countries. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 241-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/p4mqd4
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
83
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies