Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping the Transfer Pricing Practice in Delineation of Transaction - Review of Judicial Decisions in Poland

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 390-397

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Monika Laskowska

Independent

Abstract

This article addresses the development of domestic tax practice in Poland on issues related to the delineation of transaction in the context of transfer pricing. An overview of the most relevant court jurisprudence is presented, highlighting the changing positions on the part of both tax authorities and administrative courts over the last decade.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2m6zpqk

Keywords: transfer pricing, case law, intangibles, trademark, arm's length principle, SAAR, GAAR, procedural law

Suggested Citation:

Laskowska, Monika, Shaping the Transfer Pricing Practice in Delineation of Transaction - Review of Judicial Decisions in Poland. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 390-397, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2m6zpqk
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
98
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies