Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the Aoa to a Pe that Performs Services: A Case Study on the Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account of the Branch

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 182-193

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Rodrigo Ruberti

Independent

Abstract

The present contribution contains an outline of the key (tax and accounting) considerations that come into play while applying the AOA to a permanent establishment performing services. The article highlights the importance of keeping an accurate and detailed documentation of transactions having occurred among distinct parts of the same enterprise for the purpose of accurately delineating the functional profile of each of these parts and being able to demonstrate that an arm’s length amount of profits has been attributed to a branch performing services.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/zs8sfw

Keywords: transfer pricing, AOA, arm's length principle, allocation of profits, intra-group services, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, branch, PE, balance sheet, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Ruberti, Rodrigo, Applying the Aoa to a Pe that Performs Services: A Case Study on the Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account of the Branch. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 182-193, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/zs8sfw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies