Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing in Business Practice in the Light of an Increase of Intra-Group Services: Results from the Transfer Pricing Study 2021

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 356-362

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Sven-Eric Bärsch

Independent

S. Kluge

Independent

Abstract

As part of the Transfer Pricing Study 2021, German businesses and businesses in the other parts of the Germany, Austria and Switzerland (DACH) region were asked about the design of their transfer pricing systems and their experiences with the acceptance of those systems among tax authorities and within the firm. In particular, the implications of the increase in intra-group services for the design of transfer pricing systems and transfer pricing management were examined.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2f2vncr

Keywords: transfer pricing, intra-group services, tax authorities, audit

Suggested Citation:

Bärsch, Sven-Eric and Kluge, S., Transfer Pricing in Business Practice in the Light of an Increase of Intra-Group Services: Results from the Transfer Pricing Study 2021. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 356-362, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2f2vncr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies