Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reinsurance Intra-Group Agreements: The Key Role of Re-Eva in Supporting the Arm's Length Principle

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 377-382

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Francesco Saverio Scandone

Independent

B. Leoni

Independent

Abstract

In an economic context in which risk management plays an important role for the economic players, it is increasingly common to come across reinsurance transactions. In this context, multinationals often make use of reinsurance agreements, generating significant transnational flows with the related consequences also in terms of transfer prices. Despite the efforts made by the OECD with the publication of the new chapter X of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and with the clarifications provided on risk analysis, the common transfer pricing rules are not immediately applicable to reinsurance operations, also due to the complexity of the agreements and the difficulty of applying the existing TP methods to them. Therefore, this article, having analysed the main transfer pricing risks associated with intercompany reinsurance transactions, intends to provide possible new tools to verify the compliance with the arm’s length principle of reinsurance agreements, such as the combined ratio, the capital release, actuarial analysis and the RE-EVA.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1vq8twr

Keywords: transfer pricing, reinsurance, intercompany transaction, arm's length principle, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Scandone, Francesco Saverio and Leoni, B., Reinsurance Intra-Group Agreements: The Key Role of Re-Eva in Supporting the Arm's Length Principle. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 377-382, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1vq8twr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies