Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Court Disagrees with Singtel Australia that Interest Paid to British Virgin Islands Company Was Arm's Length

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 309-320

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Michael Butler

Independent

L. Wang

Independent

K. Chen

Independent

Victoria Wong

Independent

K. Mai

Independent

Abstract

In Singapore Telecom Australia Investments Pty Ltd v. Commissioner of Taxation, Moshinsky J has agreed with the Commissioner that SingTel Australia paid excessive interest on an AUD 5.2 billion loan from its British Virgin Islands holding company. Moshinsky J therefore upheld amended assessments disallowing interest deductions of AUD 894 million. However, the simplicity of the result belies the complexity of the Australian transfer pricing provisions and his Honour’s lengthy and careful reasoning. The authors examine the decision in detail and conclude that, despite the Commissioner's success, the transfer pricing landscape in Australia remains uncertain and unpredictable – especially given the taxpayer’s recent (2021) win in Commissioner of Taxation v. Glencore Investment Pty Ltd. All transfer pricing matters clearly need to be considered separately on a case-by-case basis.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3d83bq

Keywords: transfer pricing, case law, interest deduction, cross-border arrangement, arm's length principle

Suggested Citation:

Butler, Michael and Wang, L. and Chen, K. and Wong, Victoria and Mai, K., Federal Court Disagrees with Singtel Australia that Interest Paid to British Virgin Islands Company Was Arm's Length. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 309-320, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3d83bq
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies