Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Market Value of Transferred Intangibles Using the Discounted Cash Flow Model

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 405-412

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

J.H. McClure

Independent

Abstract

Discounted cash flow models of the fair market value of transferred intangible assets must rely on the estimated cash flows from the intangible asset over its economic useful life. Even if a reliable forecast of future sales and expenses from an enterprise were available, the representatives of the multinational must defend its assumptions with respect to the share of profits attributable to the transferred intangible, the economic useful life for the transferred intangible assets, and the appropriate discount rate. The IRS has challenged certain applications of this approach on the grounds that the representatives of the multinational have understated the share of profits attributable to the transferred intangible and the economic useful life while overstating the appropriate discount rate.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/23keybm

Keywords: transfer pricing, fair market value, intangibles, cash flow, useful life, allocation of profits

Suggested Citation:

McClure, J.H., Estimating the Market Value of Transferred Intangibles Using the Discounted Cash Flow Model. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 405-412, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/23keybm
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies