Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Descriptive Study on Cbc Reporting Requirements in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 95-99

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Bilal Hassan

Independent

Abstract

The issue of base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational enterprises has led to the development of a 15 Actions Plan by the G20 and OECD. Action 13 of the Plan provides for developing and implementing country-by-country (CbC) reporting regulations to address tax evasion by assessing BEPS related risks. This includes the high risk of transfer pricing and conducting economic and statistical analyses utilizing information available in the CbC reports. In this article, the CbC reporting regulations of the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bahrain are compared.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1yag3tr

Keywords: transfer pricing, CbC Reporting, BEPS Project (OECD), reporting requirements, tax compliance, penalties

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Bilal, Comparative Descriptive Study on Cbc Reporting Requirements in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 95-99, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1yag3tr
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
142
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies