Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cup Method: Could it Be a Reliable “Sanity Check” When the Arm's Length Principle is Verified Using a Transactional Profit Method?

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 14-17

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Franco Pozzi

Independent

L. Consalter

Independent

Abstract

Automatic year’s end adjustments deriving from the application of the transactional net margin method (TNMM) could trigger under specific circumstances inconsistencies with the underlying transactions. The application of the TNMM cannot disregard the price of the goods when the significant economic terms and conditions are substantially comparable, and, notwithstanding that the comparable uncontrolled price (CUP) method does not satisfy all the conditions to be applied as most preferable transfer pricing method, it could improve the level of reliability of the transfer pricing analysis.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2y3zfa1

Keywords: transfer pricing, CUP method, TNM method, arm's length principle, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Pozzi, Franco and Consalter, L., Cup Method: Could it Be a Reliable “Sanity Check” When the Arm's Length Principle is Verified Using a Transactional Profit Method?. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 1, Pages 14-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2y3zfa1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies