Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Emerging Doctrine of “Commercial Rationality” in Transfer Pricing Inquiries

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 279-284

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Thomas Ickeringill

Independent

Abstract

It is often said that the mere fact that a transaction may not be seen between independent parties does not mean it is not arm's length. However, Australian courts are increasingly insisting on observable market evidence of the “commercial rationality” of a transaction. This article considers the origins of the “commercial rationality” concept in the OECD Guidelines, its emergence as a defining feature of Australian transfer pricing jurisprudence and the practical implications of this for taxpayers.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ga61p3

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Ickeringill, Thomas, The Emerging Doctrine of “Commercial Rationality” in Transfer Pricing Inquiries. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 4, Pages 279-284, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ga61p3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies