Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Guidance in South Africa on the Definition of “Associated Enterprises” in Connection with the Transfer Pricing Rules

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 100-103

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Mark Badenhorst

Independent

Abstract

This article deals with a draft interpretation note entitled Definition of “Associated Enterprise” issued by the South African Revenue Service on 14 October 2022. The draft note provides guidance on the interpretation and application of the definition of “associated enterprise” which is to be included in section 31(1) of the Income Tax Law. The purpose of this inclusion is to bring the legislation in line with international standards and to address a potential anomaly and reduction in the tax base created by the exclusion of “associated enterprises” from section 31. A de facto approach is adopted in regard to the concepts “manage”, “control” and “capital”. The potential consequences of this are briefly dealt with.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3jfmfmw

Keywords: transfer pricing, associated enterprises, control, domestic tax law, arm's length principle, income tax law

Suggested Citation:

Badenhorst, Mark, New Guidance in South Africa on the Definition of “Associated Enterprises” in Connection with the Transfer Pricing Rules. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 2, Pages 100-103, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3jfmfmw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
135
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies