Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aspects of the Metaverse: Is a Pillar Three Coming?

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 301-308

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefano Simontacchi

Independent

F.S. Scandone

Independent

U. Lorenzi

Independent

Abstract

The metaverse and Web 3.0 are (again) going to change the digital economy and its business models as we know them and give rise to key issues from a tax perspective. It is thus expected that the current international tax principles, the tax challenges raised by OECD BEPS Action 1 for the digital economy and, more recently, Pillar One new taxing rights (which have yet to be implemented) could soon become outdated. This article illustrates, with the support of some examples, what the future challenges of international taxation might be – considering, among other things, the potential coexistence of the “old” principles under the OECD Model Tax Convention and Pillar One – and how the metaverse might have an impact on business models and the real world (including by considering the role and interactions of cryptocurrencies, NFTs and blockchain technology, which are key to the metaverse’s operations) with a focus on how taxing rights among the different countries involved in the metaverse are to be attributed.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2zjfmwj

Keywords: international taxation, metaverse, BEPS Project (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), allocation of taxing rights, OECD Model, cryptocurrency, blockchain

Suggested Citation:

Simontacchi, Stefano and Scandone, F.S. and Lorenzi, U., Tax Aspects of the Metaverse: Is a Pillar Three Coming?. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 5, Pages 301-308, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2zjfmwj
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
147
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies