Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact Assessment for Pillar One and Pillar Two from a German Perspective

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 275-284

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Björn Heidecke

Independent

Abstract

In this article the tax effects of Pillar One and Pillar Two in Germany are discussed. The study complements the few studies available so far. The presented estimate of the tax revenues to be expected from the introduction of Pillar One varies between EUR 2 billion and 2.5 billion for the introduction of a 25%-over-10% rule. With regard to Pillar Two, additional revenues of around EUR 1.3 billion to 1.8 billion can be assumed in Germany. Further research should be carried out to anticipate expected changes in governments' behaviour as a response to Pillar One and Two. Likewise, expected compliance costs for multinationals need to be further assessed.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1ryzfn6

Keywords: transfer pricing, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), tax revenues, compliance burden

Suggested Citation:

Heidecke, Björn and Liebe, T., Impact Assessment for Pillar One and Pillar Two from a German Perspective. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 275-284, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037331 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1ryzfn6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies