Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
German Federal Tax Court Rules in Favour of Taxpayer in Transfer Pricing Cases on Intercompany Financing Transactions

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 19-23

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Sven-Eric Bärsch

Independent

C. Engelen

Independent

Abstract

In two recent landmark decisions, the German Federal Tax Court has reaffirmed its preference for applying the (internal or external) CUP method for the determination of intra-group interest rates if comparables are less than ideal. While the creditworthiness of the borrower should be regarded on a stand-alone basis, the effects of the group affiliation may need to be considered. The burden of proof regarding the arm’s length nature of intra-group interest rates rests with the tax authorities.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1n65wcb

Keywords: transfer pricing, intercompany financing, case law, CUP method, arm's length principle, burden of proof

Suggested Citation:

Bärsch, Sven-Eric and Engelen, C., German Federal Tax Court Rules in Favour of Taxpayer in Transfer Pricing Cases on Intercompany Financing Transactions. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 19-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1n65wcb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
137
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies