Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Guaranteed Unclarity? A Critical Analysis of Paragraph 10.161 of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 179-186

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Shyam Sundar Manivannan

Independent

D. van Straten

Independent

Abstract

Paragraph 10.161 of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines takes a specific approach to the accurate delineation of financial guarantees by recharacterizing guaranteed debt as a loan to the guarantor followed by an equity contribution to the legal borrower in certain circumstances. This article provides a critical analysis of this paragraph by exploring its legal background and also considering potential ramifications of the approach included in the paragraph from an international tax perspective. This article also presents a way forward on how taxpayers and tax authorities may review debt capacity of a borrower of guaranteed debt to establish the arm’s length nature of the financing arrangement.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fz5r76

Keywords: transfer pricing, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, guarantee fee, loan, debt, contribution, arm's length principle, thin capitalization, case law

Suggested Citation:

Manivannan, Shyam Sundar and Straten, D. van, Guaranteed Unclarity? A Critical Analysis of Paragraph 10.161 of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 179-186, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3fz5r76
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies