Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Intangible Ownership Move with the People that Perform the Dempe Functions?

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Caroline Silberztein

Independent

M. Guillaume

Independent

Abstract

In the context of globalization and accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, recruitment pools are becoming global, remote team working becomes common, and employees performing significant value adding functions may be located in different jurisdictions, not always in the country of the head office or of the entity that owns the group’s valuable intangibles. While the identification of significant people functions has been a critical point in transfer pricing analyses for more than 25 years, its precise significance in the OECD Guidelines has evolved in successive waves. The greater emphasis on people functions raises questions on the impact that workers’ or functions’ mobility can have on the allocation of intangible ownership and return.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28f6e65

Keywords: transfer pricing, intangibles, value creation, DEMPE, functional analysis

Suggested Citation:

Silberztein, Caroline and Guillaume, M., Does Intangible Ownership Move with the People that Perform the Dempe Functions?. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28f6e65
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies