Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Interaction between Chapter X of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the EU Directive on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms an Effective One?

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 35-44

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Hans van den Hurk

Independent

Abstract

International tax law has been developing rapidly for years. In this article, the author tests the consequences of the new chapter X of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines against the EU Arbitration Directive and the Dutch Tax Arbitration Act. He concludes that, because the Directive does not cover differences in qualification, various situations will fall between two stools.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1yv2rm1

Keywords: transfer pricing, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, Tax Dispute Resolution Directive, dispute resolution, arbitration

Suggested Citation:

Hurk, Hans van den, Is the Interaction between Chapter X of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the EU Directive on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms an Effective One?. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 35-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1yv2rm1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
132
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies