Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Business Restructurings in Germany – Part I: Economic Life of Businesses

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 161-172

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Andreas Riedl

Independent

T. Stechmann

Independent

Abstract

For multinational enterprises seeking to engage in business restructuring in Germany, a lack of national legislation and inconsistent regulations are causing problems, including high exit charges and the risk of double taxation. The German tax legislation assumes an indefinite time frame of capitalization for the valuation of business restructurings, unless reasons can be provided for a definite useful life. Empirical evidence shows that there are prudent reasons why business restructurings should not be started from the premise of an indefinite capitalization period for the valuation of a transfer package, especially for whole business units. Most companies do not reach the mature age that would justify a projection of future cash flows into perpetuity. Moreover, research shows that the cumulated probability of default of a company behaves like a negative growth rate for the expected cash flows. Therefore, it is very likely that business restructuring transactions are overvalued, which results in a higher tax burden for the transferring entity, and the risk of double taxation increases.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3yzvr52

Keywords: transfer pricing, reorganization, MNE, risk, exit tax, valuation, merger, acquisition, bankruptcy

Suggested Citation:

Riedl, Andreas and Stechmann, T., Valuation of Business Restructurings in Germany – Part I: Economic Life of Businesses. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 3, Pages 161-172, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3yzvr52
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies