Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing of Distribution Activities in Business Practice: Results of the Transfer Pricing Study 2023

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 305-310

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Sven-Eric Bärsch

Independent

X. Ditz

Independent

S. Kluge

Independent

Abstract

As part of the Transfer Pricing Study 2023, companies in Germany, Austria and Switzerland were recently asked about the design of their transfer pricing systems and their experiences with the acceptance of these systems by the tax authorities and within the company. In particular, the role of distribution activities as a key function for MNEs in the design of transfer pricing systems, in transfer pricing management and in tax audits was under the authors’ investigation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/9nhr3r

Keywords: transfer pricing, distribution centre, MNE, control, functional analysis, audit, dispute resolution

Suggested Citation:

Bärsch, Sven-Eric and Ditz, X. and Kluge, S., Transfer Pricing of Distribution Activities in Business Practice: Results of the Transfer Pricing Study 2023. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 5, Pages 305-310, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/9nhr3r
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies