Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Considerations for Procurement and Sourcing Entities

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Vassil Tcherveniachki

Independent

Abstract

This article deals with the arm’s length determination of transfer prices for intercompany sourcing activities. In particular, it challenges the view that intercompany sourcing activities represent merely routine services that should be entitled to a low cost-based remuneration without considering any markup on the procurement cost. On the contrary, sourcing activities are usually part of the key value chain of MNE groups meaning that the inclusion of the purchasing cost for raw materials or goods in the cost base is appropriate in the context of the application of the cost-plus method in accordance with the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/4v5h5h

Keywords: transfer pricing, arm's length principle, value, MNE, cost plus method, OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Tcherveniachki, Vassil, Transfer Pricing Considerations for Procurement and Sourcing Entities. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/4v5h5h
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
266
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies