Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quiet Evolution in International Tax: Domestic Law and Double Taxation

World Tax Journal, 2024 (Volume 16), No. 4.

18 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 10 Dec 2024

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 29, 2024

Abstract

This article is reproduced with the kind permission of IBFD. This article describes the respective roles of international tax law (predominantly tax treaties) and domestic tax law and their relationship with each other. This is a complex and interdependent relationship, with treaties, as special law, generally overriding domestic law. The article discusses the founding principle of tax treaties preventing double taxation, reflecting the original purpose of tax treaties. Subsequent developments over time have vigorously established the second principle of treaties: that the purpose of tax conventions is also to prevent tax avoidance and evasion. Such an increasingly important principle heralds the rise of anti-avoidance rules, prevention of abuse and the preservation of domestic taxing rights. The thesis in this article is that domestic law has prevailed against the more specialized law of treaties and at an increasing rate. This evolution has occurred in situations where the special law of treaties is "watered down" by the principle that treaties should not be allowed to be abused or in situations where they facilitate tax avoidance. What are the implications of this trend on the development of international tax policy? The article reflects on the respective roles of international and domestic law and guides us to suggestions on how to preserve important international tax principles in good faith and limit expedient domestic tax law changes when they are not driven by taxpayers' abusive actions.

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, The Quiet Evolution in International Tax: Domestic Law and Double Taxation (November 29, 2024). World Tax Journal, 2024 (Volume 16), No. 4., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5038436 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5038436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Sandra Martinho , Fernandes
Critical Assessment of Interest Limitation Rules: Global Perspective
Applying the Arm's Length Principle
Fernandes
Critical Assessment of Interest Limitation Rules
Applying the Arm's Length Principle
Fernandes
Critical Assessment of Interest Limitation Rules: Global Perspective
Applying the Arm's Length Principle
Oecd
Proposed Changes to Commentaries in the OECD MTC on Article 9 & on Related Articles Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
139,412
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies