Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequences of Tax Code Complexity

27 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2024

Stephen Kastoryano

University of Reading

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper reveals how tax complexity, in the form of loopholes and assets overlapping different sections of tax returns, contributes to tax avoidance and evasion. Using administrative data from the Netherlands, it shows how an auditing announcement in 2005 triggered large increases in declared assets and properties, predominantly held by the wealthiest segments of society, in unexpected sections of the tax returns. It further takes advantage of a one-year reduction in the dividend tax rate, which coincided with another auditing announcement in 2007, to more specifically assess strategic spontaneous declarations and shifting among shareholders, particularly those with substantial company holdings. The results highlight taxpayer contingency plans and opportunistic behaviour when declaring previously hidden wealth. They also emphasize how the ambiguity of certain assets' classifications can be coopted to strategically shift wealth in response to new tax policies.

Keywords: Tax Complexity, Tax Evasion, Tax Avoidance, Auditing Announcements

Suggested Citation:

Kastoryano, Stephen, The Unintended Consequences of Tax Code Complexity. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5043304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5043304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Abeler , S Jäger
Complex tax incentives
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2015
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob
Dividend taxes and income shifting
The Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 4 , p. 693 - 717 Posted: 2016
A Alstadsaeter , M Jacob , R Michaely
Do dividend taxes affect corporate investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 151 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2017
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , S Herry , G Zucman
Tax evasion and tax avoidance
Journal of Public Economics , volume 206 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
339
RANK
708,404
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies