Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FORMATIVE YEARS OF A NEW GLOBAL TAX ARCHITECTURE: WHAT IS THE ROLE OF LEGITIMACY?

6 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Sam van der Vlugt

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

The paper discusses the methodological questions surrounding the ubiquitous use of the term 'legitimacy' in debates on international tax law. It shows some discrepancies between that use and the term's actual appreciable practicability within legal discourse. The main question on which light is shown is how the recent developments have informed the tax discourse on legitimacy and how that debate can better be structured. The paper shows that legitimacy is no easily established value, mainly due to the limitations of the field of inquiry (tax law). As legitimacy has an empirical taste, the instruments of legal inquiry often lack the possibility to pick up its thread. Where the behaviour of actors does have legal consequences, and thus output that can be part of a legal argument, legitimacy is such an ill-defined term that, at the current point, its incautious use in the debate is probably doing more harm than good.

Keywords: legitimacy, international tax law, democracy

Suggested Citation:

van der Vlugt, Sam, FORMATIVE YEARS OF A NEW GLOBAL TAX ARCHITECTURE: WHAT IS THE ROLE OF LEGITIMACY? (September 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5045425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5045425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies