Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Indirect Taxes on Emerging Market Economies: Perspectives from Nigeria's Economic Growth (2002-2022)

19 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Boniface Umoh E.

Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu

Date Written: December 12, 2023

Abstract

In many situations, the full impact of indirect taxes is still not well understood, despite the fact that they constitute an essential tool for economic growth in developing nations. This paper examines how important indirect taxes affect economic growth and provides important context for understanding how they affect the country's GDP. This study focused on Nigeria's economic growth and analyzed the impact of indirect taxes on developing market economies. Its specific objectives were to explore the impact of value-added tax (VAT), excise and customs duties (CED), Stamp Duties (SDU) and capital gains tax (CGT) on the nation's real GDP.

Keywords: Indirect taxes, VAT, custom and excise duties, stamp duties, capital gain tax and Real GDP

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interest and personal financed

Funder Statement

Self

Suggested Citation:

Umoh E., Boniface, Impact of Indirect Taxes on Emerging Market Economies: Perspectives from Nigeria's Economic Growth (2002-2022) (December 12, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5046097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5046097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
F F References Adegbie , A Ademola , T A Aguguom , E D Otitolaiye
Diversification of the economy, tax revenue and sustainable growth in Nigeria
International Journal of Innovative Research and Scientific Studies , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 127 Posted: 2023
S Akhor , O Ekundayo
The impact of indirect tax revenue on economic growth: The Nigerian Experience
Igbenedion University Journal of Accounting , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 87 Posted: 2016
S J Aniefor
Stamp duty tax and economic growth: Evidence from Nigerian Economy
Journal of Global Accounting , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 73 Posted: 2022
I Arisoy , I Unlukaplan
Tax composition and growth in Turkey: An empirical analysis
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 59 , p. 51 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
741,983
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies