Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review on Pro and Con of Development in E-Invoicing

17 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Charanjeet Kaur

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Majid Khan Majahar Ali

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM)

Date Written: August 26, 2024

Abstract

The emergence of digitalization has altered corporate procedures and affected day-today operations. The term "digitalization" in accounting describes the process of transforming accounting practices by utilizing technologies like cloud computing, blockchain, and artificial intelligence (AI). For companies of all sizes, electronic invoicing is a digital process for creating, sending, receiving, and processing invoices which is essential to increasing productivity and cutting expenses. The authority is currently preparing a tax reform to progressively to implement electronic invoicing (E-invoice), starting in August 2024, in order to advance Malaysia's tax system. The business must be prepared for the adoption of electronic invoices to ensure the development of e-invoicing and ensure its success. Determining the pros and cons of e-invoicing development is the aim of this study. In this paper, a substance review conducted using existing studies and the main gap is identified. This study thoroughly examines the impacts of electronic invoicing, as well as its pros and cons, regulatory frameworks, and technological advancements. E-invoicing offers efficiency, cost savings, and environmental benefits, but faces system integration, security, and compliance issues. Future growth depends on regulatory changes and technological innovations like blockchain and artificial intelligence (AI) in Malaysia.

Keywords: e-invoicing, taxation, technology

Suggested Citation:

Kaur, Charanjeet and Majahar Ali, Majid Khan, Review on Pro and Con of Development in E-Invoicing (August 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Accenture
The Value of E-invoicing: Reducing Errors and Improving Cash Flow Posted: 2021
N Ahmad , J Lim
Public-private partnerships in digital transformation: The case of einvoicing
Economic Development Quarterly , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 60 Posted: 2024
Avalara
Posted: 2021
Bernama
Tax agents assisting businesses with e-invoicing transition. Retrieved from Bernama Billentis Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,358
RANK
202,849
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies