Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transmission of Corporate Tax Cuts to Consumer Loans: Evidence from the TCJA

“Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper”

69 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025 Last revised: 22 Jul 2025

Joao Granja

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Fabian Nagel

Stanford University

Arndt Weinrich

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR); TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 13, 2024

Abstract

Using data from a major U.S. credit bureau, we analyze whether and how cuts in bank income taxation affect the interest rates and size of consumer loans. Exploiting the change in bank corporate income taxation from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and utilizing tax-exempt credit unions as a control group, we find that the corporate tax cut leads to lower interest rates for consumers obtaining auto loans from banks. We find reduced rates for high and low credit quality borrowers. We develop a parsimonious model to identify the economic mechanisms of tax incidence in consumer credit markets. Testing the model predictions empirically reveals that the effect of the tax cut declines with banks’ market power and leverage, while we find a limited role for selection in consumer credit markets.

Keywords: Consumer Loans, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, tax incidence

Suggested Citation:

Granja, Joao and Nagel, Fabian and Weinrich, Arndt, The Transmission of Corporate Tax Cuts to Consumer Loans: Evidence from the TCJA (December 13, 2024). “Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper”, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
William Adams , Liran Einav , Jonathan Levin
Liquidity constraints and imperfect information in subprime lending
American Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 84 Posted: 2009
Stefania Albanesi , Giacomo Degiorgi , Jaromir Nosal
Credit growth and the financial crisis: A new narrative
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 132 , p. 118 - 139 Posted: 2022
Bronson Argyle , Taylor D Nadauld , Christopher Palmer
Real effects of search frictions in consumer credit markets Posted: 2020
Wiji Arulampalam , Michael P Devereux , Giorgia Maffini
The direct incidence of corporate income tax on wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
RANK
311,586
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies