Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxes and IPOs: The Value of Stock as Acquisition Currency

66 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 21 Dec 2024

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Enshuai Yu

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

We hypothesize that high capital gains tax rates motivate firms to go public for the purpose of making nontaxable, stock-financed acquisitions. Public acquirers have the option of offering their own stock to target shareholders in nontaxable deals; a valuable benefit when capital gains tax rates are high and one for which target shareholders are willing to accept a lower takeover price (i.e., acquirers obtain a relative discount). Employing variation in U.S. federal tax rates, we find that firms undertake IPOs earlier in their life-cycle and are less likely to withdraw announced IPOs when tax rates are high. Moreover, under high tax rate regimes, newly public firms conduct more stock-financed acquisitions and conduct them sooner after IPO, consistent with firms using relatively low-cost equity to grow early in their life-cycle. We corroborate our main findings using tax rate variation among (1) U.S. states, and (2) OECD countries. One implication of our findings is that the presence of high capital gains tax rates favors publicly listed firms by imposing a friction to investment that public acquirers can circumvent but private acquirers generally cannot.

Keywords: Initial public offerings, Capital gains taxes, Mergers and acquisitions JEL classifications: G32, G34, H24, H32, H71

Suggested Citation:

Yost, Benjamin and Yu, Enshuai, Capital Gains Taxes and IPOs: The Value of Stock as Acquisition Currency (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5066339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5066339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Abrahamson , T Jenkinson , H Jones
Why don't US issuers demand European fees for IPOs
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 6 , p. 2055 - 2082 Posted: 2011
C Aghamolla , R T Thakor
Do mandatory disclosure requirements for private firms increase the propensity of going public
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 804 Posted: 2022
H Ahir , N Bloom , D Furceri
The world uncertainty index Posted: 2022
N Aktas , C Andres , A Ozdakak
The interplay of IPO and M&A markets: The many ways one affects the other Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
320,086
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies