Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-border spillover effects of corporate taxes

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/010

63 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2025

Pietro Bonetti

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: December 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores how corporate taxes can result in crosscountry spillover effects along international supply chains. Rooted in the theory of tax incidence, suppliers (customers) try to pass their corporate tax burden onto foreign customers (suppliers) through higher (lower) prices. This reduces foreign firms' profits and, thereby, can lead to lower investments at the level of the customer (supplier). Using a rich data set on millions of supplier-customer links for over 18,000 publicly traded firms and exploiting corporate tax rate variation in 54 countries over the period 2010-2022 in a shift-share design, we find evidence supporting this notion. Corporate taxes of suppliers or customers reduce investments of connected foreign firms along the supply chain. This investment-spillover effect is stronger when firms have less bargaining power or when they operate in more competitive markets. Moreover, we show that higher suppliers' and customers' taxes reduce connected firms' profitability and margins. We also show that foreign firms respond to suppliers' or customers' taxes by adjusting the global supplier-customer network. Overall, our results show that corporate taxes can result in adverse cross-border spillover effects when firms are connected via the supply chain.

Keywords: supply-chain links, spillover effects, tax incidence, corporate tax

Suggested Citation:

Bonetti, Pietro and Jacob, Martin and Ormazabal, Gaizka, Cross-border spillover effects of corporate taxes (December 27, 2024). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5073253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5073253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D H Autor , D Dorn , G H Hanson
The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the United States
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 6 , p. 2121 - 2168 Posted: 2013
M P Baker , J C Stein , J A Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1006 Posted: 2003
T J Bartik
Who benefits from state and local economic development policies? Posted: 1991
J Bena , S Dinc , I Erel
The international propagation of economic downturns through multinational companies: The real economy channel
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 146 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
347,495
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies