Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Decline of Corporate Tax Avoidance After the TCJA

55 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Brayden D. Bulloch

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 26, 2025

Abstract

We examine corporate tax avoidance after the enactment of P.L. 115-97, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). Despite altering the cost-benefit calculus for corporate tax avoidance strategies, the TCJA's broad impact on corporate tax planning behavior remains surprisingly underexplored. We examine tax avoidance activity for US companies around the TCJA, using both European firms and historical effective tax rate patterns to construct separate counterfactual scenarios. Our results reveal significant shifts in tax avoidance intensity. Our analyses demonstrate that pre-TCJA tax avoiders face a 5 percentage point reduction in the gap between effective and statutory tax as a result of the TCJA. Furthermore, we document significant declines in tax risk, particularly among multinational corporations. These findings provide compelling evidence that the TCJA had a significant secondary effect: substantially reducing both the prevalence and risks associated with corporate tax avoidance strategies. While contemporaneous reports claim continued levels of tax avoidance, our results indicate a considerable reduction in tax avoidance intensity post-TCJA.

Keywords: JEL classification: H25, K34 corporate taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, tax risk, tax uncertainty

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Bulloch, Brayden and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Vernon, Mary, The Decline of Corporate Tax Avoidance After the TCJA (January 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5078758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5078758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
T Atwood , T P Johnson
U.S. multinational corporations' initial income-shifting response to the TCJA Posted: 2021
E Barrett
Biden Pushes 15% Minimum Tax for Corporations in His State of the Union Address After 55 Fortune 500 Companies Paid No U.S. Income Tax Last Year Posted: 2022
B Bratten , C A Gleason , S A Larocque , L F Mills
Forecasting taxes: New evidence from analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2017
J L Campbell , M Cecchini , A M Cianci , A C Ehinger , E M Werner
Tax-related Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosures, Future Profitability, and Stock Returns
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 264 - 308 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
432,122
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies