Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Multinationals' Tax Strategies and Domestic Employment

54 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Jeremiah Harris

Kent State University - Department of Finance

William O'Brien

University of Illinois Chicago

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the effect of foreign tax avoidance (and the subsequent increase in potential repatriation taxes) on domestic (U.S.) employment for multinational corporations. We use confidential BEA data on foreign and domestic employment during both the pre-TCJA and post-TCJA years. Using the establishment of a Double Irish tax avoidance structure and a proxy for exogeneous changes to potential repatriation taxes, we provide plausibly-causal evidence that potential repatriation taxes decreased domestic employment while increasing foreign employment during the pre-TCJA era. Despite removing repatriation taxes, we find no evidence that the TCJA changed employment behavior; firms continued with business as usual.

Keywords: JEL Classifications: G3, G34, G38, H26, H32 Taxes, Multinational Firms, Corporate Innovation, Employment

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Jeremiah and O'Brien, William, U.S. Multinationals' Tax Strategies and Domestic Employment (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5080315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5080315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
John M Abowd , Francis Kramarz
The Costs of Hiring and Separations
Labour Economics , volume 10 , p. 499 - 530 Posted: 2003
Renée Adams , Heitor Almeida , Daniel Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founder-CEOs and firm performance
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 16 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
Josh Austin , Jeremiah Harris , William O' Brien
Do the Most Prominent Firms Really Make the Worst Deals? How Selection Issues Affect Inferences from M&A Studies
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 118 Posted: 2020
Balakrishnan , Jennifer L Karthik , Wayne R Blouin , Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
RANK
841,621
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies