Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Taxes and Share Pledging

51 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025

Jon Underwood

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Benjamin Yost

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the link between CEOs' unrealized capital gains tax liabilities ("tax burdens") and share pledging; a practice in which executives use shares in their firm as collateral for personal loans. We argue that a prime benefit of share pledging is the ability to obtain personal liquidity without selling appreciated stock, thereby enabling CEOs to avoid triggering large tax liabilities. Employing a hand-collected sample of executives' share pledging, we provide the first systematic evidence that CEO taxes are a primary driver of the decision to pledge shares. After Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) discouraged the practice in 2012, firms with high-tax burden CEOs were less likely to impose anti-pledging restrictions. Moreover, those firms that restricted share pledging increased liquid pay for affected CEOs. Overall, our findings indicate that taxes are a first-order driver of share pledging, and that firms and CEOs use share pledging to contract around CEOs' personal tax liabilities.

Keywords: share pledging, capital gains taxes, CEO, compensation

JEL Classification: G30, H24, H26, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Underwood, Jon and Yost, Benjamin, CEO Taxes and Share Pledging (January 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5081525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5081525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Anderson , M Puleo
Insider share-pledging and equity risk
Journal of Financial Services Research , volume 58 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2020
C Armstrong , J Core , W Guay
Why do CEOs hold so much equity Posted: 2015
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang , D Taylor
The economics of managerial taxes and corporate risk-taking
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
J Bae , R Zhang
Anti-pledging policy, CEO compensation, and investment Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,193
RANK
311,586
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies