Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Will the Corporate AMT Turn Norwalk Into a Booming Metropolis?

7 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: November 25, 2024

Abstract

The federal government has enacted a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) on the financial statement income of large corporations. For most U.S. corporations, their financial statement income is determined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as promulgated by a private nonprofit organization, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), based in Norwalk, Connecticut. Norwalk is the sixth largest city in Connecticut but might become a significant new locus of American political power. 

The rise of Constantinople as the second capital of the Roman Empire is instructive as precedent.  Tax advisers, influencers, and real estate investors could have a similarly historic opportunity to get into the new Washington of Norwalk before it becomes America’s newest metropolis and second city for the next 1,000 years.

A second article discusses timing and guidance considerations for the corporate AMT. 

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Will the Corporate AMT Turn Norwalk Into a Booming Metropolis? (November 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
E G See , I Arthur , Gould
The Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax: A Search for Equity Through a Maze of Complexity , volume 64 Posted: 1986
Sandra G Redmond Soneff
The Book Income Adjustment in the 1986 Tax Reform Act Corporate Minimum Tax: Has Congress Added Needless Complexity in the Name of Fairness?
Sw. L.J , volume 40 , issue 5 Posted: 1987
John M Janiga
The Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax: A Critique and Exploration of Alternatives
Loy. U. Chi. L.J , volume 21 Posted: 1988
Mindy Herzfeld
Taxing Book Profits: New Proposals and 40 Years of Critiques
Nat'l Tax J , volume 73 , issue 4 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
267
RANK
753,736
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies