Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimizing Corporate Charitable Gifts Under the Corporate AMT

3 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: November 11, 2024

Abstract

Under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, large corporations are generally subject to a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) on their book income as determined for financial accounting purposes in 2023 and later. One difference between book income and taxable income is that the tax system encourages charitable giving to nonprofit organizations.  Those incentives do not exist for book income tax purposes, which can significantly reduce the tax benefits of charitable contributions.

For maximum flexibility and to prevent a corporation’s tax department from becoming the scapegoat for an unexpectedly costly charitable gift, corporations may need to reduce their noncash charitable contributions by up to 15 percent to have the same after-tax cost as under prior law. A smaller detriment applies to corporate cash charitable contributions.

Corporations may also consider postponing their charitable contributions until a later year in which they are certain that the contributions provide full tax benefits under both the regular tax and corporate AMT regimes.  For example, the corporation could have significant corporate AMT deductions that are not allowed for regular tax purposes, such as when the corporation is paying fines, marijuana-trafficking expenses, or more than $1 million per person of executive compensation, all of which reduce financial statement income but are disallowed for regular tax purposes under sections 162(f), 280E, and 162(m), respectively.

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Optimizing Corporate Charitable Gifts Under the Corporate AMT (November 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
RANK
713,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies