Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When the IRS Speaks: Investor Valuation of Private Letter Rulings and Tax Opinions in Corporate Spin-offs

59 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025 Last revised: 11 Jun 2025

Shannon Chen

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Stephen J. Lusch

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Junwei Xia

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 11, 2025

Abstract

This study examines investor valuation of the reduction in tax uncertainty provided by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) private letter rulings (PLRs) relative to obtaining a tax opinion from a law firm or accounting firm. Using a sample of tax-free corporate spin-offs from 1996 to 2019, we find that the market reacts more positively to corporate spin-off filings that disclose the receipt of a favorable PLR relative to filings without PLR-related disclosure. The cross-sectional tests indicate that the more positive abnormal returns are concentrated in transactions where the relative size of the spun-off entity is larger and, to a lesser extent, transactions where the investor base does not include tax-insensitive institutional shareholders. In addition, market reactions are influenced by the IRS’s breadth of PLR scope, with time periods of broader rulings yielding more positive market reactions. This study contributes to the understanding of investor valuation of tax uncertainty in spin-off transactions and informs the IRS as it continues to assess and improve its PLR program.

Keywords: tax uncertainty, spin-offs, private letter rulings, investor valuation

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shannon and Lusch, Stephen J. and Murphy, Frank and Xia, Junwei,
When the IRS Speaks: Investor Valuation of Private Letter Rulings and Tax Opinions in Corporate Spin-offs
(June 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B C Ayers , C E Lefanowicz , J R Robinson
The Effects of goodwill tax deductions on the market for corporate acquisitions
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 22 , issue s-1 , p. 34 - 50 Posted: 2000
B C Ayers , C E Lefanowicz , J R Robinson
The effect of shareholder-level capital gains taxes on acquisition structure
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 859 - 887 Posted: 2004
L Bambino , L Crouch
IRS Expands Scope of Spin-Off Private Letter Rulings in 18-Month Pilot Program. JD Supra Posted: 2017-09-26
P G Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
471
RANK
672,864
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies