Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Interest Limitation Rules: Evidence from M&A Investments

Posted: 9 Jan 2025 Last revised: 11 Jul 2025

Eliezer M. Fich

Drexel University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lisa Hillmann

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Johanna Kling

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Barbara Stage

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: November 26, 2024

Abstract

We examine the impact of rules limiting the tax deductibility of interest expenses on mergers and acquisitions (M&A). These rules aim to curb excessive debt financing and debt-shifting incentives. However, debt is crucial for cash-financed deals. Using data from 43 countries, we find that interest expense limitation rules are associated with reduced M&A activity. Transactions that occur after these rules take effect exhibit lower deal values and inferior quality. This evidence highlights the unintended consequences of anti-tax avoidance regulations, supporting the hypothesis that, by increasing the cost of debt, these regulations distort resource allocation in the economy.

Keywords: Interest limitation rules, Real Effects, Tax avoidance, Debt financing, Mergers and Acquisitions

JEL Classification: G34, H25, H26, K34, L51, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fich, Eliezer M. and Hillmann, Lisa and Kling, Johanna and Stage, Barbara, The Real Effects of Interest Limitation Rules: Evidence from M&A Investments (November 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5089487
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies