Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Profitability Pressure and Capital Market Valuation on Tax Haven Engagement

60 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

George J. Jiang

Washington State University

Weiwei Wang

Weber State University (WSU) - Goddard School of Business and Economics

Joseph Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

We investigate three key research questions related to firms’ engagement in tax haven activities: (1) the relationship between firm profitability pressures and tax haven involvement, (2) how the capital markets price tax haven activities as potential risks, and (3) whether firm profitability pressures moderate the relationship between tax haven involvement and capital market risk perceptions. Analyzing data from 1995 to 2020, we find that firms facing profitability pressure are more likely to engage in tax haven activities. Additionally, tax haven involvement is typically viewed negatively by capital markets, signaling heightened information risk and agency costs. However, under profitability pressures, capital markets assess tax haven activities less unfavorably. These findings highlight the need to better understand the drivers of aggressive tax avoidance strategies.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Information risk, Market value, Tax Haven

JEL Classification: G10, G30, H26, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linda H. and Jiang, George and Wang, Weiwei and Zhang, Joseph, The Impact of Profitability Pressure and Capital Market Valuation on Tax Haven Engagement (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5094570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5094570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
T J Atwood , C Lewellen
The complementarity between tax avoidance and manager diversion: Evidence from tax haven firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 294 Posted: 2019
K Balakrishnan , J L Blouin , W R Guay
Tax aggressiveness and corporate transparency
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
415
RANK
785,592
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies