Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Tax Evasion Misallocate Resources?

6 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2025

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 13, 2025

Abstract

This study examined the issue of whether tax evasion misallocates resources. Microsoft Copilot, an artificial intelligence chatbot, was used to generate a two-part essay. In part 1, it summarized some arguments to justify the position that tax evasion misallocates resources. In part 2, it summarized some arguments to justify the position that tax evasion does not misallocate resources. The essay generated some good arguments, pro and con. One positive aspect of the present study is that it showed how artificial intelligence can be used as a tool for scholarly research. It can be used as a shortcut to generate information that scholarly writers might otherwise overlook. It is a great time-saver, since the author did not have to spend hours or days searching for arguments on the pros and cons. The AI-generated essay may be used as a starting point for further conversation on this topic.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, tax morale, artificial intelligence, Copilot

JEL Classification: D61, H21, H23, H26

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Does Tax Evasion Misallocate Resources? (January 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5095953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5095953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M H U Rashid
Taxpayers' attitude toward tax evasion in a developing country: do the demographic characteristics matter?
International Journal of Applied Behavioral Economics , volume 9 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2020
R W Mcgee
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Perspectives in Theory and Practice Posted: 2012
R W Mcgee , J Shopovski
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: New Perspectives in Theory nd Practice Posted: 2025
R W Mcgee , J Shopovski
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Country Studies Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
303
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies