Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not "Super Tax Havens" After All

UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2025-01

Intertax (forthcoming, 2026)

35 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: January 13, 2025

Abstract

When crypto-assets were first introduced, tax experts worried that they might become "super tax havens." With over a decade and a half of hindsight, this article questions whether this tax-enforcement doomsday scenario has materialized or may yet materialize. The article’s conclusion is that the answer is “no.” To be sure, crypto-assets are an instrument of tax evasion, but they are not better (and maybe even worse) at facilitating tax evasion than traditional tools such as cash or secrecy jurisdictions. With some adjustments, traditional, time-tested mechanisms of tax enforcement can address tax evasion with cryptocurrencies at least as effectively as addressing any other form of tax evasion. The reason for this is rather simple: contrary to initial hopes (or warnings, depending on one’s perspective), the crypto-assets markets are not disintermediated, not decentralized, and not anonymous, and they are unlikely to become any of those things. If governments chose not to enforce tax laws in the context of crypto-assets, this would be a policy choice, not an inevitability attributable to the nature of blockchain technology.

Keywords: taxation, cryptocurrecnies, tax havens, blockchain, crypto-assets

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Not "Super Tax Havens" After All (January 13, 2025). UC Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2025-01, Intertax (forthcoming, 2026), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5096107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5096107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Awa Sun , Yin
How Centralized Exchanges Became the Most Common Crypto Mixers (NASDAQ Posted: 2023-10-23
Paul See , Muir
Peter Compare, Australian Exchanges Are Delisting Privacy Coins as They Succumb to Regulatory Pressure Posted: 2020-08-27
Robert Stevens
What Are Privacy Coins and Are They Legal? (Coindesk Posted: 2024-09
Malte Moser
An Empirical Analysis of Traceability in the Monero Blockchain, 3 PROCEEDINGS ON PRIVACY ENHANCING TECHNOLOGIES 143 (2018) 90 Supra note73
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
975
RANK
330,157
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Irvine School of Law & Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies