Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating selected Petro Products under GST: Its impact on revenue generation and retail selling prices in major Indian Metropolitan cities

46th All India Accounting Conference & International Seminar on Accounting Education and Research

13 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025

Tonoy Dey

St. Xavier's College, (Autonomous), kolkata; St. Xavier's College Kolkata

Date Written: November 23, 2024

Abstract

India underwent the largest indirect tax reform with the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) law. Although all items and services (apart from alcoholic beverages intended for human consumption) are included in the scope of the GST, the GST Council has not yet recommended adding five petroleum products to the GST law. These goods include natural gas, high-speed diesel, aviation turbine fuel, motor spirit/petrol, and crude petroleum. Due to their tax autonomy, these items currently provide significant revenue to the Central and State governments. State governments impose value added tax, and the Central Government levies central excise and cess, creating a tax-on-tax impact. By calculating revenue neutral rates for the Central and State Governments, this study examines the revenue impact of including these products under the GST umbrella (s). According to the analysis, adding petroleum items to the GST will significantly decrease both the Union Government and State Governments' revenue (s).

Suggested Citation:

Dey, Tonoy, Integrating selected Petro Products under GST: Its impact on revenue generation and retail selling prices in major Indian Metropolitan cities (November 23, 2024). 46th All India Accounting Conference & International Seminar on Accounting Education and Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5096533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5096533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Mitra Anwesha
Petroleum Products to soon be under GST Posted: 2023-02-15
A Gambhir , A Sreenivas , A Ketkar
Prayas energy Group
from Working paper on "Energy: Taxes and Transition in India Posted: 2021-02-09
N Gulati , D Adhana
Inducting Petroleum Products Into GST: An Only Solution To Rising Prices
International Journal of Trend in Research and Development , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 554 - 558 Posted: 2018
K , Akhila Ibrahim , K
WHY INDIA DEMANDS INCLUSION OF PETROLEUM?
International Journal of Management, IT & Engineering , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 118 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies