Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structural Tax Reform and the Next REIT Revolution

27 U. Pa. J. Bus. L. 988 (2025)

U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-2

64 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025 Last revised: 1 Oct 2025

Sloan G. Speck

University of Colorado Law School

Date Written: August 28, 2024

Abstract

Although often treated as monolithic, contemporary tax reform typically bundles disparate provisions into a single legislative act, or tax package. This tax package may support a discrete set of congressional objectives, but the vagaries of the tax legislative process make disjunctures likely. Multiple provisions, taken together, may advance ends unforeseen—and perhaps unforeseeable—by legislators. Within a tax package, these disjunctures often emerge post-enactment, during implementation by both the Treasury Department and private actors. This article denotes these emergent disjunctures as “structural noncoordination.”

Structural noncoordination—when provisions in a tax package, taken together, advance unanticipated ends—is not unique to tax law. Ordinary legislative processes, such as logrolling and horsetrading, lead to structural noncoordination. The tax legislative process, however, has unique features that tend to yield structural noncoordination. Policy norms that favor base-broadening tax reform, self-imposed constraints derived from quantitative budget scoring, and the cross-cutting aspects of tax planning each facilitate structural noncoordination.

To illustrate the problem of structural noncoordination, this article develops a detailed case study. This case study describes how a recent major tax package, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, created a constellation of provisions that enhanced incentives for businesses to move real property into tax-favored entities known as real estate investment trusts (REITs). These incentives for “REIT-ification” stand at odds with the stated purposes of these individual provisions, as well as any holistic idea of legislative intent. Instead, this ad hoc assemblage illustrates how structural noncoordination can emerge from disparate provisions in a tax package. This article concludes with several possible solutions, ex ante and ex post, for the problem of structural noncoordination.

Keywords: Taxation, Tax Reform, Tax Policy, Legislative Process, Real Estate Investment Trusts, REITs, Tax Law

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Speck, Sloan G., Structural Tax Reform and the Next REIT Revolution (August 28, 2024). 27 U. Pa. J. Bus. L. 988 (2025), U of Colorado Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5100851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
See Jeffrey , H Birnbaum
[T]he words 'tax reform' for a lot of Americans mean 'tax increase.'" (quoting Richard Withlin, pollster for the Reagan White House)); see also
Opinion, A Boondoggle Masquerading as Tax , volume 357 Posted: 1987-09-27
Fass Et See , Al
supra note 83, § 1:15 (stating that UPREITs have an advantage over non-UPREITs when acquiring real property)
The other major changes in law over this period involved the eligibility of REITs for tax-free spin-offs in 2001, followed by the end of tax-free spin-offs that do not involve two REITs in 2015
I R C See
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
636,031
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Colorado Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies