Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Tax Avoidance: Study on Manufacturing Companies Listed in Indonesia

14 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2025

Mukhtaruddin Mukhtaruddin

Universitas Sriwijaya

Abstract

Tax avoidance (TA) is the practice of taxpayers taking advantage of gaps in a tax laws in an attempt to lower or minimize their tax liability. The purpose of this study is to look into how transfer pricing (TP) affects TA practices. All manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange between 2019 and 2023 make up the research population. Purposive sampling was used to determine the sample, and 17 companies with a 5-year observation period were selected, yielding 85 observations in total. Regression analysis is the method employed. The impact of TP on TA can be managed by factors such as foreign ownership (FO), business complexity (BC), return on assets (ROA), firm size (FS), return on equity (ROE), and total employees (TE). In the meantime, the relationship between TP and TA practices can be moderated by the variable FO. To lessen the possibility that businesses will engage in TA practices, the government, as the tax regulator, must be able to monitor how TP is used by businesses. It is anticipated that affiliated businesses will not use TP to reduce their tax liabilities, as this would be harmful to the state.

Keywords: transfer pricing, related party, Tax avoidance, tax regulation, multinational company

Suggested Citation:

Mukhtaruddin, Mukhtaruddin, Transfer Pricing and Tax Avoidance: Study on Manufacturing Companies Listed in Indonesia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5102518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5102518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
RANK
276,301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies