Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overview Of Tax Obligations For Fintech Companies In Nigeria

15 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2025

Adebukola Sophie Adedapo

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: January 23, 2025

Abstract

Fintech is a compound acronym for ‘Financial Technology’ referring to the integration of technology applications, software and computer programs to enable ease of financial services and the banking industry. The rapid rise of financial technology in Nigeria has transformed the manner financial services are approached in the country. The Fintech industry in Nigeria has witnessed notable developments within the past few years, especially with attempts by the government to reduce the physical cash at hand of citizens. However, this reliance of the industry has brought to light certain regulatory and compliance issues being overlooked in the sector, at the forefront of this is the tax obligations of Fintech Companies. This paper performed an overview of the tax obligations faced by Fintech companies in Nigeria, highlighting the critical issues and gaps within the tax system. It identified the major tax obligations Fintech companies must comply with, including corporate income tax, value-added tax (VAT), and stamp duties amongst other levies. A doctrinal methodology is used to highlight the above. The study relied on primary sources such as statutes including the Companies Income Tax Act 2007, the Value Added Tax Act 2004, and Stamp Duties Act 2004 amongst others. This was used alongside secondary sources including Nigerian and international journal articles, reports, and policy analyses. The paper concludes by recommending practical strategies for addressing these issues, including collaboration of the tax administration, policy makers and Fintech stakeholders, utilization of technology for proper maintenance of records, and ensuring policy alignment to support the flourishing Fintech ecosystem. Also, the study emphasizes the need for improvement within tax authorities to assure the occurrence of best global practice in Fintech regulation.

Keywords: Corporate income tax, Financial technology, Regulatory compliance, Tax obligations, Value-added tax, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Adedapo, Adebukola Sophie, Overview Of Tax Obligations For Fintech Companies In Nigeria (January 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5109704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5109704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Ni Putu , Anik Suardani , Suparna Wijaya
Value Added Tax on Donation-Based Fintech Crowdfunding Posted: 2025-01
Kehinde Akintola
Fintech: Nigeria's GDP growth to hit $6bn by 2026 -Expert
Tribune Online Posted: 2024-02-07
Peter Gomber , Robert Kauffman , Chris Parker , Bruce Weber ; Ezechukwu , B O Amahalu , N Okudo , C L
On the Fintech Revolution: Interpreting the Forces of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in Financial Services
International Journal of Business Marketing and Management , volume 7 , issue 5 , p. 77 - 84 Posted: 2018-12
P Gomber , Others
On the Fintech Revolution: Interpreting the Forces of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in Financial Services
International Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 3 Posted: 1080
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
780
RANK
649,413
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies