Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the OECD Help Reduce Multinationals' Income Shifting?

51 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2025

Jillian R. Adams

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business

Date Written: January 23, 2025

Abstract

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD’s) 2015 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Framework, consisting of fifteen action items, is a substantial global effort to reduce multinational corporations’ tax-motivated income shifting. Prior research has primarily focused on two disclosure-based action items. I collectively consider all action items – both disclosure-based and more direct methods of addressing income shifting. Using a hand-collected dataset on action item implementation and exploiting the differences in the implementation of action items across countries and time, I find robust evidence that, on average, multinationals significantly decrease their income shifting from 2016 to 2021. My results suggest that three direct action items – Action 4, EBITDA-based interest deduction limitations; Action 5, harmful preferential tax regimes; and Actions 8-10, transfer pricing – and one disclosure-based action item – Action 12, mandatory third-party reporting – individually contribute to the decrease. Comparing these four action items, I find evidence that interest deduction limitations and updated transfer pricing guidelines are most significant in curtailing income shifting behavior. My results are important to governments and policymakers worldwide as countries continue to implement the action items, and the OECD monitors the action items and develops further initiatives to reduce income shifting.  

Keywords: corporate taxation, international taxation, tax regulation, tax avoidance, income shifting, OECD BEPS

JEL Classification: G38, H20, H25, H26, H32, M48

Suggested Citation:

Adams, Jillian R., Did the OECD Help Reduce Multinationals' Income Shifting? (January 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5109145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5109145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
525
RANK
499,164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies