Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Enforcement and R&D Credits

Accepted by the Journal of Accounting & Economics.

81 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2025 Last revised: 31 Mar 2025

Mary Cowx

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Date Written: March 17, 2025

Abstract

Tax enforcement deters noncompliance, increasing tax revenue, but may also discourage taxpayer investment in activities that policymakers aim to incentivize through tax credits and deductions. This paper investigates this investment-revenue trade-off through the lens of the research and development (R&D) tax credit, a federal tax incentive that is highly scrutinized by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). My results suggest that expectations about IRS corporate tax scrutiny are negatively associated with both R&D tax credits and R&D investment, on average. I estimate each $1 of aggregate enforcement spending is associated with a reduction in R&D tax credits of $2.64.  In terms of elasticities, a 1% increase in my estimate of IRS corporate tax scrutiny is associated with a decline in R&D tax credits and R&D investment of 0.4% and 0.2%, respectively. A survey of 116 managers further supports that the risk of IRS scrutiny affects both R&D tax credit take-up and R&D investment decisions. Moreover, both the survey responses and archival evidence underscore the importance of internal information quality in claiming R&D tax credits, suggesting tax policy simplification as a means to address enforcement-related declines in R&D investment.

Keywords: research and development, tax enforcement, tax incentives, tax administration, innovation, R&D, IRS, tax credits

JEL Classification: G31, H25, H32, G38, O30, O31, O38

Suggested Citation:

Cowx, Mary, Tax Enforcement and R&D Credits (March 17, 2025). Accepted by the Journal of Accounting & Economics., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5110514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5110514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A Abadie , A Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering?
Q. J. Econ , volume 138 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 35 Posted: 2023
C H Achen
Why lagged dependent variables can suppress the explanatory power of other independent variables
annual meeting of the political methodology section of the American Political Science Association , volume 20 , p. 7 - 2000 Posted: 2000
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
J. Public Econ , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
H Amberger , J Gallemore , J Wilde
Corporate Tax System Complexity and Investment Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
273,040
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies