Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Voluntary Tax Disclosures and Consequences for the Value Relevance of Tax Positions

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-01

53 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2025

Sylvia Auer

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Department of Finance, Accounting & Statistics

Date Written: January 27, 2025

Abstract

I explore the determinants of voluntary tax disclosures and implications for the value relevance of financial statement tax items. Using a sample of Australian ASX300 firms that can voluntarily publish private tax information under the Australian Tax Transparency Code (TTC), I find that disclosing firms exhibit higher cash effective tax rates (cash ETRs) and report larger deferred tax assets and smaller deferred tax liabilities than non-disclosers. In addition, firms start voluntarily disclosing private tax information when facing persistently high cash ETRs, large deferred tax assets and small deferred tax liabilities. When excluding loss observations, the results suggest that firms begin disclosing after incurring higher tax expenses, which may signal profitability. Furthermore, I find a positive valuation effect of tax expense in firm years when private tax information is disclosed, supporting the notion that voluntary tax disclosure enhances the profitability signals inherent in tax expenses.

Keywords: Voluntary tax disclosure, disclosure theory, tax uncertainty, deferred taxes, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H26

Suggested Citation:

Auer, Sylvia, Determinants of Voluntary Tax Disclosures and Consequences for the Value Relevance of Tax Positions (January 27, 2025). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5112888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5112888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
426
RANK
644,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies