Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
2025 Budget to Boost Manufacturing and the ‘Make in India’

Medium | March 2025

6 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2025

Baranidharan Subburayan

School of Business and Management, Christ University

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

The Union Budget for 2025–26, presented on February 1, 2025, marks a significant step forward in bolstering India’s manufacturing sector and reinforcing the ‘Make in India’ initiative. With a clear focus on enhancing domestic production capabilities, the government has introduced a series of measures aimed at transforming the manufacturing landscape. One of the cornerstone initiatives is the establishment of a National Manufacturing Mission, which will provide comprehensive policy support and a governance framework to facilitate small, medium, and large industries.

Keywords: ‘Make in India’, domestic production capabilities, transforming the manufacturing landscape

Suggested Citation:

Subburayan, Baranidharan, 2025 Budget to Boost Manufacturing and the ‘Make in India’ (February 03, 2025). Medium | March 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5122233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5122233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
50 PM 2025 BUDGET TO BOOST MANUFACTURING AND THE 'MAKE IN INDIA' | by Baranidharan S | Feb , volume 3 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
685
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies