Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

住宅ローン控除制度が不動産価格に与える影響 (The Impact of the Housing Loan Deduction System on Real Estate Prices)

10 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2025

Yutaka Kawase

Kobe Gakuin University

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

Japanese abstract: 住宅借入金等特別控除制度は、所得税負担を軽減することで住宅取得を促進することを目的として導入された。しかし、この制度は住宅価格を押し上げ、結果として新規購入者に伏在税（implicit taxes）という形で追加的な負担を生じさせる可能性が指摘されている。本研究では、前研究（河瀬 2023）が大阪府内の中古戸建住宅市場を対象に行った分析を踏まえ、対象地域を兵庫県、物件タイプを中古マンションに広げ、住宅ローン控除制度が市場条件の異なる環境下でも同様の影響を及ぼすかを検証した。

ヘドニック法を用いた分析の結果、制度の対象物件がそうでない物件に比べて有意に価格が上昇することが明らかになった。このことは、当該税制による伏在税が地域や物件タイプを超えて存在する可能性を示唆している。また、地域特性や物件特性に応じて制度の効果がどのように変化するかを明らかにすることは、今後の住宅税制設計にとって重要な政策的含意を持つ。本研究は、住宅ローン控除制度がもたらす市場への影響をより包括的に理解する基盤を提供するものである。




English abstract: The housing loan deduction system was introduced to promote homeownership through reduced income tax. However, this system has been criticized for potentially driving up housing prices, which may result in an additional burden on new homebuyers in the form of implicit taxes. Kawase (2023) examined the impact of the housing loan deduction system on the market for used, detached houses in Osaka Prefecture. Following this study, the present research expands to Hyogo Prefecture and focuses on used condominiums. The objective is to determine similarities in the effects of the system between different market conditions.

The analysis was conducted using the hedonic pricing method and revealed that the prices of properties eligible for the system significantly increased compared with those of non-eligible properties. Therefore, implicit taxes caused by the system may exist across different regions and property types. Furthermore, identifying the differences in the system’s effects between regions and property-specific characteristics has important policy implications for future housing tax reforms. Thus, this study aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the market impact of the housing loan deduction system.

Note: Downloadable document is in Japanese.

Suggested Citation:

KAWASE, Yutaka,

住宅ローン控除制度が不動産価格に与える影響 (The Impact of the Housing Loan Deduction System on Real Estate Prices)

(February 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5123684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5123684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
476
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Housing & Community Development Law eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies