Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar Two, Value Creation and Sustainability in Global Value Chains

27 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2025

Ricardo André Galendi Júnior

University of Cologne

Date Written: February 05, 2025

Abstract

Pillar Two is a system of interconnected rules, conceived by the OECD’s Inclusive Framework, which, in very broad terms, aims at ensuring that profits of multinationals are taxed at a minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction. The present Chapter investigates whether Pillar Two promotes sustainability in GVCs. Assuming a comprehensive perspective on  sustainability, this Chapter critically assesses the ability of Pillar Two to ensure that GVCs are subject to fair taxation in countries in which they operate and “create value”. The article examines how Pillar Two’s legal categories and path-dependency provide certain invitations of use that make it more likely for value chains to institutionalize in a specific manner, even if its ultimate goal is simply to establish a floor to tax competition.

Keywords: GloBE Model Rules, Pillar Two, Value creation, Global Value Chain, Sustainability, International taxation, transfer pricing, intangibles

Suggested Citation:

Galendi Júnior, Ricardo André, Pillar Two, Value Creation and Sustainability in Global Value Chains (February 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5126924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5126924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Gary Gereffi
International Trade and Industrial Upgrading in the Apparel Commodity Chain
Journal of International Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 70 Posted: 1999-06
Gereffi
N M Coe , P Dicken , M Hess
Global Production Networks: Realizing the Potential
Journal of Economic Geography , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 295 Posted: 2008
J Peter , J Buckley ; Peter , Buckley
Internalisation Thinking: From the Multinational Enterprise to the Global Factory
International Business Review , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 131 - 143 Posted: 2009-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
RANK
505,351
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies