Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DEBRA: A Good Idea?

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 3

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

L. C. van Hulten

Independent

J. J. A. M. Korving

Independent

A. Nolten

Independent

Abstract

The European Commission published a proposal for a Council Directive aimed at addressing the debt-equity bias. The proposal is twofold: it contains an allowance on equity and an interest deduction limitation. In short, the provisions of the Directive will apply to all taxpayers which are subject to corporate income tax in one or more EU Member States, save for certain financial undertakings. This article revolves around the question: would the introduction of the Directive be a positive or a negative development for businesses operating in the European Union? In other words: would it be a good idea from a business perspective?

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2ae3d1t

Keywords: DEBRA Proposal, debt capital, equity capital, interest deduction, ATAD, Pillar 2 (OECD), tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Hulten, L. C. van and Korving, J. J. A. M. and Nolten, A., DEBRA: A Good Idea?. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2ae3d1t
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies