Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cherry-Picking Dutch Court on the Offense Against Tax Avoidance

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 3

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Yves Cattel

Independent

Lennart Wilming

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors discuss recent Dutch case law on the Dutch dividend withholding tax exemption, which is the Dutch implementation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive’s anti-abuse provision. In the authors’ view, the court shifts the demarcation line between the use and abuse of law in a direction not meant by the ECJ.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/34e7zdt

Keywords: dividend withholding tax, exemption, holding company, case law, ECJ case law, Parent-Subsidiary Directive, tax avoidance, looking through, fundamental freedoms

Suggested Citation:

Cattel, Yves and Wilming, Lennart, Cherry-Picking Dutch Court on the Offense Against Tax Avoidance. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/34e7zdt
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
77
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies