Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar Two: What Actions Should Banks Be Taking Now?

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Aamer Rafiq

Independent

Graham Robinson

Independent

Shezad Aleem

Independent

Jeremy Talbot

Independent

Abstract

The concept underlying Pillar Two is relatively straightforward; a globally consistent 15% minimum tax regime. The reality is one of the most complex international tax measures ever implemented. Some of this complexity is driven by design and policy and it is important that banks are assessing the potential impact of the regime: this includes consideration of whether there is a risk of top-up tax as well as focussing on meeting reporting and compliance requirements.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1kw3wfx

Keywords: Pillar 2 (OECD), GloBE (OECD), banking, IIR (OECD), UTPR (OECD), minimum tax, top-up tax, losses, intra-group transfer of assets, debt-equity swap, compliance burden

Suggested Citation:

Rafiq, Aamer and Robinson, Graham and Aleem, Shezad and Talbot, Jeremy, Pillar Two: What Actions Should Banks Be Taking Now?. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1kw3wfx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies