Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dutch Anti-Base Erosion Rule: Recent Developments in the Context of Fraus Legis and EU Law

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 4

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

R. J. de Vries

Independent

B. M. R. Pijnenburg

Independent

Abstract

Recently, the Dutch Supreme Court has raised several probing cases on article 10a of the Dutch Corporate Income Tax Act 1969 (CITA) (also known as the Dutch anti-base erosion rule) in a short period of time in the context of fraus legis. In one of these rulings the Dutch Supreme Court appears to be taking a remarkable path which in the authors’ view does not align with the trias politica concept. Moreover, in literature many questions are raised on whether the Lexel ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union has an impact on the sustainability of the Dutch anti-base erosion on which the Dutch Supreme Court finally referred preliminary questions on 2 September 2022. In this article the authors provide the reader with the current state of affairs in relation to article 10a CITA – in particular in the context of fraus legis and EU law.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/6m9gsm

Keywords: case law, EU law, abuse of law, base erosion, corporate income tax, intercompany loan, business purpose test, abuse of rights, fundamental freedoms, justification, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Vries, R. J. de and Pijnenburg, B. M. R., The Dutch Anti-Base Erosion Rule: Recent Developments in the Context of Fraus Legis and EU Law. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/6m9gsm
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies