Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Corporate-Based Investment Funds in Finland: A SCPI (Case C-342/20) as an Example of Discriminatory Treatment Based on Legal Form

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Anna Tallgren

Independent

Janne Juusela

Independent

Abstract

This article analyses the decision handed down by the ECJ in Case C-342/20, which pertains to the tax treatment of a French investment fund in Finland. The Finnish withholding tax regime applied to foreign investment funds has been challenged in several tax disputes since Aberdeen in 2009. In 2020, the Finnish legislator enacted new legislation on the tax treatment of foreign investment funds. The compatibility of this legislation with the free movement of capital is at the centre of the ECJ decision discussed in this article. The ECJ ruling in Case C-342/20 follows closely the way paved by earlier ECJ case law where unfavourable tax treatment of non-resident investors has been found to be widely incompatible with the fundamental freedoms. After this decision, it should be clear that cross-border payments of dividends and other investment income from EU Member States cannot be subject to disadvantageous tax treatment solely based on the legal form of the non-resident investors.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1mkmkfx

Keywords: ECJ case law, investment fund, non-resident, fundamental freedoms, justification

Suggested Citation:

Tallgren, Anna and Juusela, Janne, Taxation of Corporate-Based Investment Funds in Finland: A SCPI (Case C-342/20) as an Example of Discriminatory Treatment Based on Legal Form. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 23 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1mkmkfx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies