Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Issues for Cryptocurrency-Related Businesses in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates: The Two Hotbed Crypto Jurisdictions in Middle East

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Milos Krstic

Independent

Thomas Vanhee

Independent

Varun Chablani

Independent

Abstract

This article provides a legislative overview of the taxation of cryptocurrency in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It examines the VAT treatment of cryptocurrency in both countries and the potential corporate income tax, and transfer pricing (TP) treatment in the UAE. Furthermore, the article gives a brief overview of the cryptocurrency regulatory framework in both countries.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/j0d32r

Keywords: cryptocurrency, VAT, electronic services, transfer pricing, corporate income tax, individual income tax

Suggested Citation:

Krstic, Milos and Vanhee, Thomas and Chablani, Varun, Tax Issues for Cryptocurrency-Related Businesses in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates: The Two Hotbed Crypto Jurisdictions in Middle East. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/j0d32r
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies