Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Justice in the Reshaping of International Tax

Journal of International Economic Law (2024), volume 27, issue 4, pp. 639-45

Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 5143248

7 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2025 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ivan Ozai

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 14, 2024

Abstract

Global digitalization and economic decentralization have reshaped the landscape of international tax policy, prompting substantial reforms led by the OECD, most notably its 'two-pillar solution' aimed at addressing the taxation challenges of the digital economy. This article contends that these reforms fall short of incorporating principles of global justice. The analysis critiques both the technical and normative flaws of prevailing international tax policy design approaches, revealing how its intricate, technocratic framework conceals underlying distributional biases and neglects the developmental needs of less advantaged states. It calls for international tax reforms centred on fairness, advocating for explicit consideration of distributional outcomes to ensure a more just and balanced allocation of resources and responsibilities across nations.

Keywords: global justice, international taxation, OECD, BEPS, Pillar One, Pillar Two, future of international tax

Funder Statement

This paper draws on research supported by grants from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) and the International Fiscal Association (Canadian branch).

Suggested Citation:

Ozai, Ivan, Global Justice in the Reshaping of International Tax (November 14, 2024). Journal of International Economic Law (2024), volume 27, issue 4, pp. 639-45, Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 5143248, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5143248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5143248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
447
RANK
610,038
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies