Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Big-4 Auditors in Tax Avoidance and Financial Reporting

48 Pages Posted: 21 May 2025

Adam G. Arian

Australian Catholic University; University of Southern Queensland

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: February 11, 2025

Abstract

In 2023, PwC faced a scandal after advising the Australian government on proposed tax legislation and leaking this confidential information to its corporate clients. The fallout resulted in substantial reputational and legal repercussions for PwC and the individuals involved. The question arises as to whether PwC's actions led to discernible effects on the tax payable by Australian companies. In this study, we examine whether PwC and each of the other Big 4 audit firms are associated with aggressive corporate tax behavior. We also examine the relationship between each audit firm and earnings management. The results show that PwC is associated with more tax-aggressive behavior, while PWC and EY are associated with higher earnings management. 

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance, Earnings Management, Financial Reporting Quality, Regulatory Oversight Big 4 Auditors, Big-4 Auditors

JEL Classification: D73, H2, H26, M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Arian, Adam G. and Hay, David, The Role of Big-4 Auditors in Tax Avoidance and Financial Reporting (February 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5143847 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5143847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Ahmed Al-Hadi , Grantley Taylor , Grant Richardson
Are corruption and corporate tax avoidance in the United States related?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 344 - 389 Posted: 2022
Mohammad Alhadab , Iain Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
Taufiq Arifin , Iftekhar Hasan , Rezaul Kabir
Transactional and relational approaches to political connections and the cost of debt
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 65 Posted: 2020
Hollis Ashbaugh , Ryan Lafond , Brian W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
608
RANK
549,213
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies