Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Best Asset Location for a TIPS Ladder

34 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2025

Edward F. McQuarrie

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Date Written: February 20, 2025

Abstract

Tax treatments vary across assets and account types. The literature on asset location developed in response to these challenges. The goal is to find the best location for each asset in the portfolio, defined as the account type where it will receive the most favorable tax treatment. Given multiple assets, such as stocks and bonds, and multiple account types, such as a brokerage account versus a 401(k) plan, a joint solution must be pursued: each asset has to be located such that the overall tax treatment is the most favorable that can be obtained, net, across assets and accounts. This paper develops the best location for a ladder of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities when the portfolio also contains stocks.

Keywords: TIPS, bond ladder, income tax, Original Issue Discount, RMD

Declaration of Interest

None.

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

None.

JEL Classification: D14, E31, G51

Suggested Citation:

McQuarrie, Edward F., Best Asset Location for a TIPS Ladder (February 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5146747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5146747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
W J Bernstein
The Ages of the Investor: A Critical Look at Life-cycle Investing Posted: 2012
R M Dammon , C S Spatt , H H Zhang
Optimal Asset Location and Allocation with Taxable and Tax-Deferred Investing
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 999 - 1037 Posted: 2004-06
W Reichenstein
Asset Allocation and Asset Location Decisions Revisited
Journal of Wealth Management , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 26 Posted: 2001
W Reichenstein , S M Horan , W W Jennings
Two key concepts for wealth management and beyond
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 71 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 77 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
477
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,614
RANK
137,275
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies