Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consumption Tax and Corporate Product Mix Decisions

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/027

64 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2025 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Pulak Ghosh

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Ya Kang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Jian Zhang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of frictions in consumption taxes on firms' product mix decisions. We use a stacked difference-indifferences approach that exploits the staggered transition from a sales tax with the risk of tax cascading to a value added tax (VAT) with credits on inputs across states in India, as well as detailed data on listed manufacturing firms' production decisions. We find that the switch to a VAT system induces affected firms to narrow their product scope and to reduce vertical integration. That is, firms cut the internal production of input goods and instead focus their production on their best-performing products. Firms affected by the switch to VAT reduce their firm size and are more likely to outsource production of input goods. We also show that this vertical disintegration results in lower manufacturing costs, higher profitability and firm value, and increased investment efficiency for affected firms. Overall, the paper shows that alleviating frictions in sales tax or VAT systems can reduce investment and productivity distortions and improve the allocation of capital across firms.

Keywords: value-added tax, tax cascading, product mix, cost behavior, vertical integration

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Pulak and Jacob, Martin and Kang, Ya and Zhang, Jian, Consumption Tax and Corporate Product Mix Decisions (February 28, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute Paper No. 2025/027, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5159703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5159703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
C Aghamolla , N Li
Debt contract enforcement and conservatism: Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 5 , p. 1383 - 1416 Posted: 2018
D R Agrawal , L V Zimmermann
The Effects of Adopting a Value Added Tax on Firms Posted: 2022
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
A Aneja , N Kulkarni , S K Ritadhi
Consumption Tax Reform and the Real Economy: Evidence from India's Adoption of a Value-Added Tax
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 569 - 602 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
RANK
467,335
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies