Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wealth Taxes, Past and Present

Tax Notes, State, Volume 115 (January 27, 2025)

18 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2025

Francine J. Lipman

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - William S. Boyd School of Law

Steven Reinecker

University of Nevada, Las Vegas, William S. Boyd School of Law

Date Written: January 27, 2025

Abstract

Currently, state and (to a lesser extent) federal tax structures in the United States are generally regressive, with many lower-income residents paying a higher percentage of their income in taxes than the wealthy.1 This has allowed the wealthy to increase their net worth, and in many cases to do so in a way in which little or no tax is paid on their




wealth.2 At the same time, many states are experiencing budget shortfalls and seeking ways to increase tax revenue without further burdening lower-income households.3 This has led federal and state government officials, as well as tax policy groups, to suggest ways to reverse, or at least reduce, regressive tax burdens on their residents while increasing tax revenue and providing much needed services.4 Wealth taxes seem to be the most effective solution.

This article explores wealth taxes in the United States. Section I discusses the various kinds of wealth taxes and the history of wealth taxes in the United States. Section II presents the most notable positions in the current wealth tax debate, including arguments for and against wealth taxes. Section III provides recent proposals for wealth taxes at the federal level and the prospects of those proposals being implemented. Section IV offers a state-by-state breakdown of current and proposed state wealth tax measures.

Suggested Citation:

Lipman, Francine J. and Reinecker, Steven, Wealth Taxes, Past and Present (January 27, 2025). Tax Notes, State, Volume 115 (January 27, 2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5159290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5159290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Olivia Olander
Illinois Advisory Questions on 'Millionaire's Tax
Chicago Tribune Posted: 2024-07
J Michael , Bologna
Former Illinois Governor Writing Bill to Create Millionaire Tax
Bloomberg Tax Posted: 2024-12-02
H B
Gen. Assemb. Reg. Sess , volume 3039 Posted: 2023
Fair Share , Maryland
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
588,428
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies