Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Tax Wars in the Digital Era

American University Law Review, Volume 75, forthcoming

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025 Last revised: 17 Sep 2025

Assaf Harpaz

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

The digital economy fundamentally disrupts traditional international tax principles that rely on physical presence. When a business earns income abroad, the country of residence (where the taxpayer resides) and the country of source (where income is generated) both have legitimate, competing claims to tax that income. The international tax system tends to favor residence-based taxation. The source country has the right to tax business profits only if the enterprise carries on a permanent establishment within its borders, which typically requires a physical presence. The permanent establishment standard becomes flawed in a digital economy where profit shifting practices are abundant and businesses no longer need a physical presence in the location of their online consumer markets.

An upcoming United Nations (U.N.) Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation recognizes these challenges and is overwhelmingly supported by Global South economies. However, the Global North has historically dominated the international tax regime through the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), informally known as the “World Tax Organization.” A U.N. framework convention creates potential conflict in international tax policymaking and would need to bridge the underlying North-South divide.

This Article explores the “tax wars” surrounding the leadership for global tax governance, contrasting the taxing powers and interests of the OECD-led Global North with those of the U.N.-backed Global South. It argues for a shift toward source-based taxation by revisiting the permanent establishment standard. To achieve this, the Article promotes a significant economic presence doctrine that would expand the permanent establishment criteria to include online businesses. This proposal addresses longstanding inequities and is increasingly warranted in a digital economy that does not depend on physical presence.

Keywords: International Taxation, Digital Economy, Taxing Tech, Global Tax Governance, Global South, Global North, Multinational Enterprises, UN Framework Convention, Digital Taxation, International Tax Reform, Tax Justice, Tax Fairness, UN Tax Cooperation, International Tax Policy, Tax Sovereignty, Global Tax Deal, Virtual Permanent Establishment, Significant Economic Presence, Virtual PE, Digital Services Taxation, North South Divide, OECD Model Convention, Intergovernmental Organizations, Source-Based Taxation, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, Taxation of Online Businesses, Tax Havens, Global Minimum Tax, Global Tax Policy, OECD and UN Tax Proposals

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H20, H77, K33

Suggested Citation:

Harpaz, Assaf, Global Tax Wars in the Digital Era (February 28, 2025). American University Law Review, Volume 75, forthcoming, University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5160671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5160671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
199 References
Id
, p. 39 - 40
Avi-Yonah
, p. 286 - 287
Id
369 (discussing the OECD's invitation of nonmembers to , volume 354
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
174,586
1 Citations
199 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies