Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing a Standard Business Deduction

7 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

With a new presidential administration and Republican-controlled Congress, 2025 will almost certainly bring about tax reform. Many provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are set to expire this year, and lawmakers will have to decide which ones, if any, to extend. Letting temporary tax cuts expire will likely be perceived as an unpopular tax increase, but extending them comes at a significant revenue cost.

Separately, President Trump has called for reforms unrelated to the TCJA expiration, such as tariffs and a tax exemption for tips, each of which comes with their own potential costs. While policymakers have much to weigh when considering the future of tax reform, they should not lose sight of an uncontroversial goal: tax simplification. A reform that could accomplish meaningful simplification, and that should be attractive to both Democrats and Republicans, would be enacting a standard business deduction (SBD) for small businesses.

An SBD would be a fixed amount that small business owners could deduct in lieu of actual business expenses. Claiming an SBD instead of actual expenses would relieve business owners of the obligation to track and report business expenses on their tax returns, which would save time, reduce compliance costs, and make tax return preparation vastly simpler. 

Keywords: tax, tax policy, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney, Designing a Standard Business Deduction (January 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5161851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5161851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
225
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies