Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MANDATORY BINDING TAX TREATY ARBITRATION IN THE POST-BEPS WORLD: A GOOD OPTION FOR AFRICAN COUNTRIES?

18 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025

Samuel Kahura

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology School of Law

Francis Bradept

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, School of Law

Chweya Nyamari

Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, School of Law

Date Written: January 15, 2025

Abstract

Against the backdrop of growing aggressive tax planning by Multinational Corporations, the OECD in 2013 initiated the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (BEPS) to curb these practices. Among the 15 Action Plans launched at the initiation of the project was Action 14 which focuses on effective dispute resolution. 

Fast forward to 2021, 137 countries signed the OECD Statement introducing Pillar One and Pillar Two into the arena of international tax law. The introduction of the Two Pillar solution came with it a multitude of changes and introduction of new rules. The implementation of these solutions in different countries will inevitably lead to complex double taxation disputes. Dispute resolution post implementation has therefore become an issue of paramount importance. 

Mandatory Binding Arbitration has become one such dispute resolution mechanism proposed by the OECD's Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting to supplement the old mutual agreement procedures that are the province of many double taxation treaties. At a time when African countries are rushing to implement the BEPS outcomes, they must choose wisely. This paper evaluates the mandatory binding arbitration option and offers insights on the possible benefits and pitfalls of the mandatory binding arbitration procedure. 

This paper contextualizes mandatory binding arbitration within the African realities and in light of these discussions proposes adoption of mandatory binding tax arbitration as the way forward in the post BEPs world despite the concerns harboured about the system.

Keywords: Tax Treaty, Arbitration, Mutual Agreement Peocedure

Suggested Citation:

Kahura, Samuel and Bradept, Francis and Nyamari, Chweya, MANDATORY BINDING TAX TREATY ARBITRATION IN THE POST-BEPS WORLD: A GOOD OPTION FOR AFRICAN COUNTRIES? (January 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Oecd
Minimum Tax Implementation Handbook (Pillar Two)' (OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project Posted: 2023
Reuven Avi , -Yonah , Young Ran , Kim
The Promise and Pitfalls of the Global Minimum Tax
Joe Duffy , Tomas Bailey
Tax Disputes Post-BEPS: A Perfect Storm
International Tax Review , volume 17 Posted: 2017-03
B Arnold , Michael Lang , Jeffrey Owens
The Scope of Arbitration under Tax Treaties
International Arbitration in Tax Matters (WU Institute for Australian and International Tax Law 2015) Lang M, International Arbitration in Tax Matters Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
669
RANK
549,213
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies