Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Returning to Normality After COVID-19: What Was the Role of the EITC Program?

46 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2025 Last revised: 14 May 2025

Avigail Peleg

Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Michel Strawczynski

Hebrew University of Jerusalem _ Public Policy; Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Eliezer Kaplan School of Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

Labor market research around the world keeps searching for programs that help low-income individuals to automatically cope with a sudden exogenous economic crisis, like the one generated by Covid-19. We use answers to a specific question added by the Central Bureau of Statistics in Israel at the beginning of the pandemia, for analyzing whether the pre-existence of an EITC program helped low-income individuals to return to work after Covid. We found that a specific and enlarged EITC that was provided expost during the pandemic period, aimed at incentivizing the return to work, did not operate as the key tool for this purpose. Instead, past long-term learning of EITC advantages by low-income recipients was crucial for minimizing the economic costs imposed by the pandemia.

Keywords: Covid-19, EITC, Labor Market. JEL numbers: H120, H240, J220

Suggested Citation:

Peleg, Avigail and Strawczynski, Michel, Returning to Normality After COVID-19: What Was the Role of the EITC Program? (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5162471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5162471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies