Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Role of DAC8 and MiCAR in the European Union's Efforts Towards Tax Harmonization

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 1

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Ana Corruchaga Frago

Independent

Hans van der Leeden

Independent

Mahir Budak

Independent

Nico Salemans

Independent

Abstract

Crypto assets have come under the scrutiny of the EU legislator. Particularly from a regulatory perspective and in the field of tax transparency, the Eighth Directive on Administrative Cooperation (DAC8) has been introduced, which focuses on automatic exchange of information between the tax authorities of the Member States. DAC8 imposes an obligation on crypto asset service providers to obtain data from their users. However, this legislation is not free from challenges. The aim of this article is to present an overview of the recent laws enacted to regulate the crypto asset market and give a better understanding of how these rules come into play in the larger regulatory framework as well as the role that new intermediaries will have in the changing legal landscape.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3pbskhd

Keywords: cryptocurrency, CARF, DAC8, CRS, due diligence, harmonization of tax, tax transparency, intermediary, tax authorities

Suggested Citation:

Corruchaga Frago, Ana and Leeden, Hans van der and Budak, Mahir and Salemans, Nico, Understanding the Role of DAC8 and MiCAR in the European Union's Efforts Towards Tax Harmonization. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3pbskhd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies