Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Counteracting Tax Avoidance Based on Financial Techniques: Do Thin Capitalization and Anti-Hybrid Rules Really Deal with the Underlying Problem?

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Melissa Ruiz Colmenares

Independent

Abstract

The author delves into the reasons that explain why financing has become a very potent tax planning tool and critically assesses whether the measures adopted (for example, thin capitalization and anti-hybrid rules) have been effective in counteracting tax avoidance practices based on financial techniques. The author raises questions with regard to whether these measures only tackle the symptoms rather than the principal underlying problem.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1neabn3

Keywords: tax avoidance, financing, thin capitalization, hybrid financing, tax competition, tax planning

Suggested Citation:

Ruiz Colmenares, Melissa, Counteracting Tax Avoidance Based on Financial Techniques: Do Thin Capitalization and Anti-Hybrid Rules Really Deal with the Underlying Problem?. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1neabn3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies