Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Riders on the Storm: Recent Tax Developments in Brazil and Their Impact on the Financial Sector

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 1

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Vinicius Pimenta Seixas

Independent

Rafael Pizzignacco

Independent

Abstract

In 2022, Brazil's economic environment faced significant turmoil, driven by political polarization, controversial policy proposals and the election of Luíz Inácio Lula da Silva as president. These factors led to a series of measures and decisions that affected the Brazilian tax system and the financial services industry. Among the changes were presidential decrees, provisional measures and court rulings that impacted tax deductibility for corporate income tax purposes, transfer pricing rules, withholding income tax rates, social contributions (PIS/COFINS) regulations, and the tax amortization of goodwill. By providing an in-depth examination of these developments, this article will shed light on the potential opportunities and challenges for companies operating in Brazil's financial services industry in the wake of these changes.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/32rgjg0

Keywords: tax system, financial services, transfer pricing, CFC, bad debt, case law, deductions, withholding tax, social security

Suggested Citation:

Seixas, Vinicius Pimenta and Pizzignacco, Rafael, Riders on the Storm: Recent Tax Developments in Brazil and Their Impact on the Financial Sector. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/32rgjg0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
126
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies