Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Voluntary Carbon Market: Fast-Changing Landscape and Tax Implications

Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3

Posted: 4 Mar 2025

Chris Winkelman

Independent

Pedro G. Lindenberg Schoueri

Independent

Abstract

As the voluntary carbon market gets more mature, market participants are faced with significant tax and regulatory challenges that can create uncertainty and may hamper the market’s development. This article provides an overview of the fast-changing landscape and illustrates a number of the policy, legal and tax questions that will be increasingly pressing in the years to come.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1cd6k11

Keywords: carbon tax, corporate income tax, VAT, transfer pricing, financing, tax treaty, PE

Suggested Citation:

Winkelman, Chris and Schoueri, Pedro G. Lindenberg, The Voluntary Carbon Market: Fast-Changing Landscape and Tax Implications. Finance and Capital Markets: Vol. 24 (2023), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5164407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1cd6k11
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies