Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rich Get Richer: An Examination of Tax Haven Concentration and the New "Top 7"

51 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2025 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Mary E. Vernon

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how separately analyzing tax haven countries based on countrylevel heterogeneity can produce different tax policy inferences. We focus on understanding tax havens with the largest impact on the U.S. corporate tax landscape by modernizing the Hines and Rice (1994) "Big 7" classification with a renewed focus on economic nexus. We identify seven tax havens ("Top 7") holding a combined 78 percent of all U.S. corporate tax haven subsidiaries in 2021. Top 7 havens are well-governed with relatively low transaction costs but not necessarily zero corporate tax. We find the tax benefits of tax haven operations are entirely attributed to the Top 7 havens. Bifurcating tax havens unmasks significant post-TCJA growth in foreign direct investment. While we view these havens as the jurisdictions with the largest public finance threat, we suggest selecting tax havens based on a priori characteristics that are the most relevant to an empirical setting.

Keywords: Tax havens, foreign direct investment, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Declarations of interest: None JEL codes: F4 (Macroeconomic Aspects of International Trade and Finance)

JEL Classification: F4, G38, H20

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Frank and Vernon, Mary, The Rich Get Richer: An Examination of Tax Haven Concentration and the New "Top 7" (March 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5166563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5166563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A Alstadsaeter , E Casi , J Miethe , B Stage
Lost in information: National implementations of global tax agreements
NHH Department of Business and Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2023/22 Posted: 2024
A Alstadsaeter , N Johannesen , S Le Guern Herry , G Zucman
Tax evasion and tax avoidance
Journal of Public Economics , volume 206 , p. 144 - 164 Posted: 2022
T J Atwood , T N Johnson
U.S. multinational corporations' initial income-shifting response to the TCJA Posted: 2021
C Azémar , D Dharmapala
Tax sparing agreements, territorial tax reforms, and foreign direct investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 169 , p. 89 - 108 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
493,078
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies