Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tariffs vs VAT: Revisiting the Implications of Border Tax Adjustment Policy for the U.S. and Trade Partners

41 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2025 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Guillermo Lagarda

Global Development Policy Center Boston University; Inter-American Development Bank

Paulina Verastegui

Anahuac University

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

The ongoing debate over tariffs in the U.S. is, at its core, about Border Tax Adjustments (BTAs). It reflects structural asymmetries in the U.S. tax system, particularly the absence of a Value-Added Tax (VAT) compared to its trading partners. Thus, whether in the form of tariffs or BTAs, they are likely here to stay. However, implementing a BTA alongside a Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax (DBCFT) could replicate many of the key features of a VAT. This paper explores the economic and policy implications of implementing a BTA within a DBCFT framework in the U.S., a proposal first introduced in the 2017 tax reform debates. The focus is on analyzing its impact on corporate tax burdens, revealing that industries with high labor costs and strong net exports stand to benefit, while import-dependent sectors are likely to face higher tax liabilities. Furthermore, any BTA imposed by the U.S. would disrupt inter- national markets and place pressure on trade partners to adjust their fiscal policies. To mitigate these effects, trade partners could modify their VAT systems, such as allowing firms to offset BTA payments against VAT obligations, thereby reducing tax burdens and minimizing incentives for businesses to relocate.

Keywords: Tariffs, Border Tax Adjustments, Destination-Based Cash Flow Tax, VAT, CIT

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

JEL Classification: F13, H20, H25, H87

Suggested Citation:

Lagarda, Guillermo and Verastegui, Paulina, Tariffs vs VAT: Revisiting the Implications of Border Tax Adjustment Policy for the U.S. and Trade Partners (March 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5166055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5166055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A J Auerbach , M P Devereux
Cash-flow taxes in an international setting
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 69 - 94 Posted: 2018
A J Auerbach , D Holtz-Eakin
The role of border adjustments in international taxation
American Action Forum Posted: 2016
O Barbiero , E Farhi , G Gopinath , O Itskhoki
The economics of border adjustment tax Posted: 2018-06
S G Benzell , L J Kotlikoff , G Lagarda , V Y Ye
Simulating us business cash flow taxation
Proceedings. Annual Conference on Taxation and Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the National Tax Association , volume 113 , p. 1 - 70
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
RANK
564,240
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies