Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

When Tax Authorities Speak, Auditors Listen: The Role of Tax Certification in External Auditing

Posted: 12 Mar 2025 Last revised: 23 May 2025

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Kenny Z. Lin

Lingnan University

Wei Qiang

Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen

Date Written: May 21, 2025

Abstract

Exploiting a unique institutional setting in China—where corporate taxpayers are designated as “redlisted” under a government “good tax behavior” certification program—we examine how this certification influences audit outcomes beyond mere tax compliance. We find that auditors charge significantly lower fees and issue more favorable, informative audit opinions to companies with higher certification ratings. These effects are attributed to the certification’s roles in providing information and enhancing reputation. Cross-sectional analysis shows that the benefits are more pronounced for firms with greater information opacity and in regions with stricter legal enforcement, but less significant for state-owned enterprises and firms with industry-specialist auditors. Overall, our evidence shows that the tax authority’s certification of good tax behavior serves as a comprehensive signal influencing auditor assessments, highlighting the broader implications of government tax disclosures for audit pricing and opinion formation.

Keywords: Audit fee, Audit opinion, redlisting, tax certification effect, firm reputation

JEL Classification: H25, M42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lin, Kenny Z. and Qiang, Wei,

When Tax Authorities Speak, Auditors Listen: The Role of Tax Certification in External Auditing

(May 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5166187
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies