Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redefining Purpose: The Effect of the 2019 Business Roundtable Statement on Corporate Tax Strategies*

36 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2025

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Rana Jamshed

University of South Carolina - University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 09, 2025

Abstract

Business Roundtable (BRT) firms have faced intense scrutiny from investors, media, and the public following their 2019 "Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation," which marked a shift from shareholdercentric governance to a stakeholder-focused approach. This shift has sparked debate over whether BRT firms are genuinely committed to social responsibility or merely using it as a branding strategy without implementing meaningful changes. This paper contributes to the debate by empirically examining a key dimension of social responsibility-corporate tax behavior. Using a difference-indifferences analysis covering 2004-2022, we find that BRT firms engage in higher levels of tax avoidance than other publicly listed U.S. firms. More importantly, our results indicate that BRT firms have not significantly adjusted their tax behavior since the 2019 Statement, suggesting a disconnect between their stated commitment and actual practices. Our findings provide new insights into the social responsibility of BRT firms and contribute to the broader literature on the relationship between corporate tax avoidance and CSR.

Keywords: Business Roundtable, Tax Avoidance, Corporate Social Responsibility Business Roundtable, Tax Avoidance, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Jamshed, Rana, Redefining Purpose: The Effect of the 2019 Business Roundtable Statement on Corporate Tax Strategies* (March 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5171685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5171685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego , R J Wilson
Conforming tax avoidance and capital market pressure
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
K H Bae , S El Ghoul , Z J Gong , O Guedhami
Does CSR matter in times of crisis? Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 67 Posted: 2021
F Berg , K Fabisik , Z Sautner
Is history repeating itself? The (un)predictable past of ESG ratings Posted: 2020
R Bird , K Davis-Nozemack
Tax avoidance as a sustainability problem
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 151 , p. 1009 - 1025 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
883
RANK
819,727
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies