Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Play, You Pay! Mobility, Territory, And Exclusive Source Taxation In The 21st Century

56 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2025

Yariv Brauner

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: March 10, 2025

Abstract

States have been taxing the income of both individuals and corporations based on their residence and on the source of their income. Recent developments have made residence an inappropriate basis for taxation, leaving the international tax regime wanting for reform. Assuming that states lack the appetite for an overhaul of the regime, this Article examines whether source (the remaining widely acceptable basis for taxation) could alone serve this role. It concludes that an exclusive source-based international tax reform is both viable and desirable, but its success likely depends on the willingness of states to better cooperate and coordinate their tax policies and practices. The Article makes four specific original contributions: first, it demonstrates the benefits of a single basis for taxation of both individuals and corporations; second, it evaluates the existing, mostly universal, source rules and their suitability to a modern source-based income tax regime; third, it analyzes possible reforms of these source rules that states may adopt; and, finally, it accounts for the hurdles that the examined reform may face and ways to overcome these hurdles.

Keywords: International tax, Taxation, mobility, residence, corporate residence, source taxation, double taxation, globalization

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brauner, Yariv, You Play, You Pay! Mobility, Territory, And Exclusive Source Taxation In The 21st Century (March 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5173329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5173329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Michael Lang
TAX TREATIES: BUILDING BRIDGES BETWEEN LAW AND ECONOMICS
OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital Posted: 2010
Source Taxation of Income-A Review and Re-Evaluation of Arguments (Part I) , p. 16 - 216 Posted: 1988
Klaus Vogel , Worldwide Vs
Source Taxation of Income-A Review and Re-Evaluation of Arguments Posted: 1988
Klaus Vogel
Source Taxation of Income-A Review and Re-Evaluation of Arguments , volume 16 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
RANK
143,068
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies