Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitalization and Tax Control Frameworks

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-03

65 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2025

Daniel Dallhammer

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christian Renelt

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 13, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the link between the level of digitalization in a firm’s tax control framework (TCF) and two key factors: perceived quality of the TCF and perceived tax planning. Using novel survey data from German tax experts, we find that TCF digitalization—encompassing general IT use, the level of automation, and the use of advanced technologies related to automation, analytics and artificial intelligence (AI)—is positively associated with TCF quality and a firm’s ability to benefit from stronger legal protection and reduced tax audits. However, TCF digitalization comes at a cost; we do not find a significantly positive relationship between our overall digitalization index and perceived net benefits. Nevertheless, we provide evidence of a positive relationship between advanced technologies and perceived net benefits. Furthermore, we examine the association between TCF digitalization and tax planning. We provide evidence that the use of AI-related technologies rather than the general IT infrastructure is positively associated with tax planning. Overall, our results are valuable not only for corporate decision-makers interested in enhancing both tax compliance and tax planning, but also for regulators debating on the determinants of TCF quality for co-operative compliance approaches worldwide.

Keywords: digitalization, artificial intelligence, tax control framework, tax compliance, tax planning

JEL Classification: H25, L21, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dallhammer, Daniel and Renelt, Christian, Digitalization and Tax Control Frameworks (February 13, 2025). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5178245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Alt , C Bachmann , C Seifert
Nutzen und Einführung eines prozessbasierten Tax-Compliance-Management-Systems
Der Betrieb , volume 39 , p. 2308 - 2315 Posted: 2022
M Ashraf
Does automation improve financial reporting? Evidence from internal controls
Tax risk management and governance review guide Posted: 2022-04-14
A Bauer
Tax Avoidance and the Implications of Weak Internal Controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 449 - 486 Posted: 2016
C Baumgart , C Herrich , T Niesen
Schritt für Schritt zum digitalen und automatisierten Tax Compliance Management
Rethinking Tax , volume 1 , p. 23 - 31 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
RANK
459,276
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies