Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hole in the Global Minimum Tax

93 University of Chicago Law Review (forthcoming, 2026)

San Diego Legal Studies Paper 25-015

52 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2025 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Adam Kern

University of San Diego School of Law

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

The global minimum tax is often praised for its promise to restrain harmful tax competition. But the effects of the global minimum tax are more nuanced than is commonly understood. This Article shows that the global minimum tax raises a trade-off between two kinds of tax competition: competition for profit and competition for investment. It also provides suggestive evidence that the costs of intensifying competition for investment could be substantial. Specific reforms are proposed that could preserve the benefits of the global minimum tax while mitigating its harms.  

Suggested Citation:

Kern, Adam, The Hole in the Global Minimum Tax (March 14, 2025). 93 University of Chicago Law Review (forthcoming, 2026), San Diego Legal Studies Paper 25-015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5178492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Welcome to Microsoft Ireland
Excess Profit arises in a particular country . . . if the real activities in that country generate a profit that is higher than the formulaic return allowed under the SBIE
Suárez Serrato
135 e foreign-owned rate was  percent and the domestic-owned rate was  percent. In , China eliminated its tax preference for foreign-owned firms and enacted a uniform corporate tax rate of  percent
See Alfons J. Weichenrieder & Fangying Xu
CHIPS and Science Act of , Pub. L. No. -,  Stat.  ()
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
153,172
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies