Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Past and Future of Taxing "Incomes"

104 N.C. L. Rev. __ (forthcoming 2025)

U of Houston Law Center Forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025 Last revised: 22 Mar 2025

Clint Wallace

University of South Carolina School of Law

Bret Wells

University of Houston Law Center

Date Written: March 14, 2025

Abstract

For at least half a century, the text of the Sixteenth Amendment—“Congress shall have the power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived”—has been treated by courts, lawmakers and scholars as giving Congress plenary authority to define and tax income, perhaps without any limitation. Recently, however, some members of the Supreme Court started to revive a seedling planted in the 1920s but left for dead: that the “realization rule” should be elevated to the status of a constitutional limit to Congress’s power to determine what is income. With this, we seem to be entering a new era in constitutional tax jurisprudence, focused on the meaning of income and limits to Congress’s power to tax it. 

This Article places realization in broader context, based on a novel investigation of the intellectual and functional roots of U.S. Federal income taxation, with a particular focus on the temporality of income. We find commonality between time-conscious income tax theory developed by leading economists in the pre-ratification era (some now largely forgotten), and functional concerns percolating around the same time that we uncover in financial accounting practices and tax administrative guidance. Temporal issues are central: measuring income across time periods is a dynamic and complex undertaking, and theorists and practitioners alike recognized realization as one of many possible, partial resolutions. The history we uncover here dispels the notion, advanced recently by some scholars and Supreme Court justices, that when the Sixteenth Amendment was ratified there was a common understanding of income that rested solely on realization. It suggests instead that there was not a single  meaning of “incomes” as limited to realized gains, but rather income had different meanings in different contexts. 

The historical account we develop here both anticipates and sheds light on the time-related challenges that have emerged since, including in recent constitutional income tax debates. Realization has proven especially problematic—then and now. In lieu of the realization principle, we argue that tax basis rules have served as mechanism that effectively limits the scope of the time-bound income tax. We argue that the formulation of the concept of tax basis has worked to harmonize various timing rules so that income is taxed only once across time periods, In that way, tax basis can and does limit Congress’ income tax power so that a tax on income cannot not morph into a tax on capital.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, constitutional law, sixteenth amendment, 16th amendment, tax law, deferral, capital gains, economics, income

JEL Classification: K34, H20, H24, H25, H29, P16, P43

Suggested Citation:

Wallace, Clint and Wells, Bret, The Past and Future of Taxing "Incomes" (March 14, 2025). 104 N.C. L. Rev. __ (forthcoming 2025), U of Houston Law Center Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5179216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5179216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
B Noёl , Deborah H Cunningham , Schenk
Taxation Without Realization: A "Revolutionary Posted: 1992
David J Shakow
Taxation Without Realization: A Proposal for Accrual Taxation Posted: 1986
Martin D Ginsburg
Teaching Tax Law After Tax Reform, 65 WASH
L. REV Posted: 1990
Deborah A Geier
The Myth of the Matching Principle as a Tax Value, 15 AM
J. TAX POL'Y , volume 17 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
407,466
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Houston Law Center, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies