Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Trench Deepens

30 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2025 Last revised: 29 Mar 2025

Tracey M. Roberts

Samford University, Cumberland School of Law

Date Written: March 16, 2025

Abstract

Congress, long divided, has been in gridlock for decades. The result has been regulatory ossification. Existing statutes lack the flexibility to manage the country’s many technological, social, environmental, sectoral, and market challenges. However, without a Senate super-majority vote to override the filibuster, new legislation fails. While the budget reconciliation process has provided one of the few pathways around the filibuster, that process is limited to budgetary outlays and revenue measures. Consequently, a “tax trench” has been worn from Congress repeatedly pushing major regulatory and public benefits legislation through the process as tax provisions. Now, the tax trench is set to deepen. Following a spate of cases decided in 2024, U.S. Supreme Court has placed a series of checks on federal regulatory authority, discretion, and enforcement capacity. In Loper Bright v. Raimondo, the Court overturned Natural Resources Defense Council v. Chevron, holding that the courts must interpret regulations pursuant to the standards set forth in the Administrative Procedures Act, rather than deferring to executive branch expertise. In Corner Post, Inc. v. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Court held that the statute of limitations under the Administrative Procedures Act begins tolling when the plaintiff faces an injury, effectively eliminating the time-bar for claims that an administrative agency has exceeded its authority in setting regulations, and possibly a broader swath of challenges. In Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jarkesy, the Court held that defendants are entitled to a jury trial before an Article III court when administrative agencies seek to enforce civil damage claims that are “legal in nature.” Nevertheless, tax legislation continues to provide a pathway through this gauntlet of new hazards. This article makes three contributions. First, it reviews the foregoing cases and their impacts on existing regulation: limits to executive branch interpretive authority, uncertainty within the administrative process, and impediments to enforcement. Second, it identifies, within each of the recent U.S. Supreme Court cases that have curtailed administrative authority, certain tax exceptions to these limits. Finally, it argues that theses tax exceptions may permit regulatory action or public benefits in the form of tax legislation to pass scrutiny.




Keywords: taxation, regulation, public benefits, budget reconciliation, administrative law, Loper Bright, Corner Post, Jarkesy

Declaration of Interest

The author has no personal or financial relationship with other people or organizations that may have or could be perceived to have influenced this study.

Ethics Approval

The study did not involve patients / participants.

Funder Statement

The research was funded, in part, by a Summer Research Grant from Samford University, Cumberland School of Law.

JEL Classification: H20, K34, K20

Suggested Citation:

Roberts, Tracey, The Tax Trench Deepens (March 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5180981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5180981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Id
Id
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
668,003
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies