Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Overconfidence and Reduction of Deferred Tax Assets

16 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025 Last revised: 10 Apr 2025

Koreyoshi Seki

Asia University

Date Written: March 19, 2025

Abstract

This study empirically examines the impact of managerial overconfidence on the recognition and subsequent substantial reversal of deferred tax assets. Such assets are recognized based on temporary differences deductible from future taxable income and carryforward tax losses; however, their recoverability assessment involves a high degree of managerial discretion. Previous research suggests that managerial overconfidence influences investment and financial decisions, ultimately leading to distortions in corporate financial reporting. Based on a sample of Japanese listed companies, this study investigates whether managerial overconfidence leads to the overstatement of deferred tax assets and, consequently, to significant reversals through increased valuation allowances in later periods. The empirical findings indicate that firms with highly overconfident managers tend to recognize larger amounts of deferred tax assets and are more likely to experience significant reversals in subsequent periods. This suggests that due to their optimistic forecasts of future performance, overconfident managers may overestimate the recoverability of deferred tax assets, eventually necessitating accounting corrections. This study contributes to the literature by highlighting the influence of subjective judgments in accounting for income taxes and raising awareness among investors and auditors about the impact of managerial psychological traits on the reliability of financial reporting. Furthermore, new directions are also provided for future research on the relationship between managerial behavior and accounting decisions.

Keywords: Managerial Overconfidence, Deferred Tax Assets, Accounting for Income Tax

Suggested Citation:

Seki, Koreyoshi, Managerial Overconfidence and Reduction of Deferred Tax Assets (March 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5184787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5184787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
E Amir , T Michael , Kristen L Kirschenheiter , Willard
The Valuation of Deferred Taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Benjamin C Ayers
Deferred Tax Accounting under SFAS No. 109: An Empirical Investigation of Its Incremental Value-Relevance Relative to APB No. 11
Accounting Review Posted: 1998-02
A Bakke , T R Kubick , M S Wilkins
Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Auditorsʼ Going Concern Evaluations
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2023
Mark P Bauman , Kenneth W Shaw
Balance Sheet Classification and the Valuation of Deferred Taxes
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 77 - 85 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies