Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Brief Guide to the Mathematics and Taxation of Charitable Remainder Unitrusts

30 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Nathan Sosner

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Catherine Chen

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Roxana Steblea

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Date Written: March 18, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides a practical guide for financial planners and wealth management professionals on charitable remainder unitrusts (CRUTs). It systematizes the information that would be helpful for modeling and analyzing CRUTs. The first half of the paper covers the basic terms of a CRUT, such as the fixed percentage, annual valuation, payment timing and frequency, and the length of the payment period, as well as more advanced topics, such as net income, makeup, and flip provisions. These terms are then used to derive the formulas for unitrust payments and charitable residual interest. The second half of the paper addresses the taxation of CRUTs and their beneficiaries, with particular attention to the handling of low-basis assets and the potential for triggering deemed sale regulations. It also describes the punitive treatment of unrelated business taxable income (UBTI) and stresses the importance of avoiding investments that could generate it. A hypothetical case study is used to illustrate the application of CRUTs in financial and charitable planning.

Keywords: Charitable Remainder Unitrust, CRUT, Unitrust Payments, Charitable Residual, Taxation of CRUT Beneficiaries, Unrelated Business Taxable Income, UBTI, Deemed Sale JEL Classification: D14, G11, G51, H24, K34

Suggested Citation:

Sosner, Nathan and Chen, Catherine and Steblea, Roxana, A Brief Guide to the Mathematics and Taxation of Charitable Remainder Unitrusts (March 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5185641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5185641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
P Bouchey
The Direct Index Playbook for Wealth Managers
The Journal of Beta Investment Strategies , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 118 - 131 Posted: 2024
B R Hauser
The Next Generation and the Pursuit of Happiness: Part Two
The Journal of Wealth Management , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 8 - 13 Posted: 2006
J M Hesch , S M Breitstone
Using Charitable Remainder Trusts to Defer Reporting the Gain Realized from the Sale of Marketable Securities for Cash
Bloomberg-Article-November-2019-Using-Charitable-Remainder-Trusts-to-Defer-Reporting-the-Gain-Realized-From-the-Sale-of-Marketable-Securities-for-Cash , volume 44 Posted: 2019
S Krasner , J Liberman , N Sosner , S Brenner
Levering Up to Do Good: Direct Long-Short Investing and Charitable Giving
The Journal of Beta Investment Strategies , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 34 - 65 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,872
RANK
75,449
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies