Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Letter Rulings: Unlocking Tax Certainty, Triggering IRS Monitoring

66 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Jesse Gardner

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business

Ryan Polk

Clemson University - Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business

Courtney Yazzie

Clemson University - School of Accountancy & Legal Studies

Date Written: March 18, 2025

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether firms requesting Private Letter Rulings (PLRs) from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) face higher levels of tax authority monitoring than other firms. PLRs offer tax certainty by clarifying the tax implications of specific transactions, but they also require significant disclosure and involve high direct and indirect costs. Using a sample of 16,383 firm-years from 2010 to 2023, of which 14% of firms requested a PLR, we analyze the effect of PLRs on tax authority scrutiny using the monitoring measure developed by Finley and Stekelberg (2022). Our findings reveal that firms requesting PLRs face heightened tax monitoring, consistent with salience theory. This conclusion holds even after removing PLR requests related to tax-free mergers, spin-offs, and reorganizations, some of the most common requests from public corporations, suggesting that the results broadly apply to PLR-requesting firms. Finally, we do not find evidence that firms requesting a tax opinion from their external tax advisors, rather than a PLR from the IRS, face similarly heightened monitoring. This research extends the nascent PLR literature and provides insights into the consequences of voluntary tax disclosures on tax authority monitoring. The findings should be relevant to managers and tax advisors weighing the costs and benefits of a PLR request, particularly in light of the IRS’s recent expansion of the scope of issues eligible for PLRs.

Keywords: Private Letter Ruling, Tax Enforcement, IRS Monitoring, Tax Planning

Suggested Citation:

Gardner, Jesse and Polk, Ryan and Yazzie, Courtney, Private Letter Rulings: Unlocking Tax Certainty, Triggering IRS Monitoring (March 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5185835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5185835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring firm exposure to government agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
B C Ayers , J K Seidman , E M Towery
Tax reporting behavior under audit certainty , volume 36 , p. 326 - 358 Posted: 2019
P J Beck , P Lisowsky
Tax uncertainty and voluntary real-time tax audits
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 867 - 901 Posted: 2014
C Boike , A Sharp
The Basics of Private Letter Rulings
The CPA Journal , volume 80 , issue 11 , p. 44 - 47 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
377
RANK
834,175
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies