Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where's My Refund(Able Credit)? Reforming Filing Requirements To Close The "Tax-Benefit Gap"

Pittsburgh Tax Review, volume 22, issue 1, 2024 [10.5195/taxreview.2024.244]

28 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Orli Oren-Kolbinger

University of Oregon - School of Law

Date Written: February 26, 2025

Abstract

U.S. Federal tax policy plays a vital role in alleviating poverty. That policy has established critical benefits, including fully or partially refundable tax credits such as the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and the Child Tax Credit (CTC). These programs redistribute wealth to those in need, but tax complexity creates informational, administrative, and financial barriers, undermining their poverty-alleviating impact.

First, eligible households must file an annual tax return to claim the EITC and CTC, even when their gross income is below the filing threshold. This requirement creates a paradox: low-income exempts households from filing but simultaneously makes them eligible for tax credits. The government effectively allows these low-income households not to file because of their low income. Yet, simultaneously, it requires them to file to access credits. This duality presents a contradiction, creates confusion, and imposes additional burdens on the very taxpayers the credits aim to assist.

Second, navigating the tax filing process remains daunting for low-income households, even with cost-free programs like Fillable Forms, Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) services, Free File, and the recent IRS Direct File Pilot. These barriers diminish the credits' impact as poverty-alleviating tools. 

This Essay examines the institutional barriers low-income households with income below the filing threshold face when accessing refundable credits. It argues that the complexities of tax filing weaken these credits’ redistributive potential and proposes institutional solutions to improve benefit delivery. These solutions aim to lower the costs of applying for and administering benefits, increase take-up rates, and align program outcomes with redistributive goals. Drawing on innovative delivery of pandemic-related benefits such as Economic Impact Payments (EIPs) and expanded credits, the Essay advocates a shared responsibility model to streamline benefit access.

Keywords: Tax Filing, EITC, CTC, Tax Credits, Tax Benefit Gap

Suggested Citation:

Oren-Kolbinger, Orli, Where's My Refund(Able Credit)? Reforming Filing Requirements To Close The "Tax-Benefit Gap" (February 26, 2025). Pittsburgh Tax Review, volume 22, issue 1, 2024 [10.5195/taxreview.2024.244], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Margot Crandall-Hollick See , Tax Pol'y Ctr , Inst Urb , Brookings Inst
How the American Rescue Plan's Temporary EITC Expansion Impacted Workers Without Children 1 Posted: 2024-06
Earned Income and Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) Tables, I Posted: 2024-08-26
I R C
Crandall-Hollick
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
246
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies