Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Tax Courts Stabilize the Economy?

Seton Hall Law Review, volume 54, issue 2, 2023[10.60095/GTVP2508]

42 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Orli Oren-Kolbinger

University of Oregon - School of Law

Date Written: November 28, 2023

Abstract

Should tax courts think about the economy when reaching a judicial decision? Economic crises are a given and inevitable part of the economy. The world has been living through such a crisis due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. As part of their efforts to stabilize the economy during crises, or even during “regular” business cycles, governments implement fiscal policy through the tax and transfer systems. Although the traditional fiscal stabilizers can promote economic stabilization more accurately, their design and application are costly, complicated, and not flawless.

Potentially, other tax institutions—such as tax courts and tax judges— can also contribute to fiscal stabilization during economic crises. This is because judicial decisions in tax disputes have fiscal implications. But scholars have paid little attention to the macroeconomic implications of courts and their fiscal stabilization potential. This Article fills this lacuna, offering a novel cost-benefit framework for analyzing whether tax courts should consider the macroeconomic environment when making judicial decisions. If not, then what should they do? If so, how?
This framework relies on previous empirical findings from courts in the United States and Israel, according to which business cycles have influenced judicial decisions. The analysis comprises three incremental steps:
1. The benefit: can courts serve as fiscal stabilizers when making judicial decisions, particularly in tax cases?
2. The cost: should they act as fiscal stabilizers?
3. Only if the benefit outweighs the cost, how would the judicial fiscal stabilization mechanism be shaped? And what if the cost outweighs the benefit?

Keywords: Law and Macroeconomic, Judicial Decision-Making, Tax Courts, Business Cycles, Tax Law, Tax Policy

Suggested Citation:

Oren-Kolbinger, Orli, Should Tax Courts Stabilize the Economy? (November 28, 2023). Seton Hall Law Review, volume 54, issue 2, 2023[10.60095/GTVP2508], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Arie Id , Marom
The State-of-the-Economy Index and the Probability of Recession: The Markov Regime-Switching Model 2 (Bank of Isr
Djivre & Yakhin Posted: 2003-05
Zeira Strawczynski
They claim that minimizing procyclical fiscal policy is the Israeli economy's first step toward the implementation of a countercyclical fiscal policy, as is expected of a developed country , volume 65
See Oren-Kolbinger
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
168
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies