Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Income Tax as a Market Correction

Forthcoming in the U.C. Law Journal

Wake Forest Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 5194813

57 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2025 Last revised: 28 Mar 2025

Rebecca Morrow

Wake Forest University - School of Law

Date Written: March 19, 2024

Abstract

I confess. As a tax professor, it has long hurt my feelings that economists label tax as a market distortion. My field is summed up as an impurity on the otherwise pristine complexion of the economist’s pure market. I like to think that tax scholars are not so disparaging of economics. We do not view economically motivated action as a distortion to our tax system, but as a component of it. It is tax planning. This Article proposes that tax should be viewed as a component of a market system. Just as tax scholarship acknowledges that an imagined world in which tax is imposed in isolation does not and cannot exist, might economic scholarship similarly conceded that it lacks a robust basis to characterize tax as a distortion to the market, as opposed to a component of it? After all, could a market exist without government enforcement of market rules, and could a lasting, functioning government exist without tax?

This Article argues that an income tax is the vestibular system of our market economy. It can balance the market and help send better information to our brains. Without an income tax to balance the otherwise harmful effects of excessive risk aversion, narrow framing, and the disposition effect, transactions would be made by brains that are preoccupied with avoiding loss. The market system would lean inefficiently against risk. Luckily, an income tax ramps up risk-taking and counterbalances risk aversion. Viewing tax as a component of a market system, rather than viewing it in isolation, reveals that the income tax corrects the market. It mitigates the harmful economic consequences of loss aversion.

The implications of this insight are significant. They support arguments that: higher income tax rates might fuel economic growth, loss offsets encourage risk-taking better than preferred rates do, and the realization requirement offers additional corrective power.

Keywords: tax, income tax, economics, distortion, correction, risk, behavioral economics, SCOTUS, Moore, realization

Declaration of Interest

N/A

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Morrow, Rebecca, The Income Tax as a Market Correction (March 19, 2024). Forthcoming in the U.C. Law Journal, Wake Forest Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 5194813, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5194813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5194813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Monty Python's Flying Circus: Dead Parrot (BBC television broadcast Posted: 1969-07
Thaler Rabin
Thaler Rabin
T]his and previous papers make clear that expected-utility theory is manifestly not close to the right explanation of risk attitudes over modest stakes…it can be very misleading
230; See similarly, Rabin, supra note 96 , p. 1282 - 1283
E G See , D Joshua , Tyler Coval , Shumway
Do Behavioral Biases Affect Prices?
J. FIN , volume 60
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
493,078
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wake Forest University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies