Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequence of Anti Patent Troll Laws on State Tax Revenues

60 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Charles Lee

San Diego State University - Accountancy

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Date Written: March 27, 2025

Abstract

We study whether the adoption of state anti-patent troll laws incentivizes protected firms to be more tax aggressive. Non-practicing entities, or patent trolls, have widely been recognized as a social detriment by regulators, prompting many states in the U.S. to enact legislature designed to counteract patent trolling and spur within-state innovation. While prior studies have shown that anti-troll laws generally associate with ex-post positive social outcomes (e.g., an increase in innovation), we predict and find that the adoption of anti-troll laws gives rise to a loss in state tax revenues by firms exploiting the resulting increase in intellectual property (IP) to shift profits to lower-tax jurisdictions. Specifically, following the passage of anti-troll laws, 1) firms operating in adopting states report lower state effective tax rates and assign significantly more patents to no-tax states, and 2) adopting states experience lower corporate income tax revenue growth. Economically, our results suggest that firms operating in anti-troll states lower state tax burdens by 19 percent relative to unprotected firms on average. We also find that U.S. multinationals operating in anti-troll states exhibit significantly greater responsiveness to tax-motivated outbound income shifting incentives. Our study is the first to provide evidence that, in the ongoing battle against patent trolls, state legislators' efforts to protect local firms could have unintended negative state tax revenue consequences.

Keywords: patent trolls, state tax avoidance, income shifting

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Charles and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J., The Unintended Consequence of Anti Patent Troll Laws on State Tax Revenues (March 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5198324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5198324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Intellectual Property Law Association
Report of the economic survey Posted: 2013
Ian Appel , J Farre-Mensa , E Simintzi
Patent trolls and startup employment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 133 , p. 708 - 725 Posted: 2019
J Bai , D Fairhurst , M Serfling
Employment Protection, Investment, and Firm Growth
Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 644 - 688 Posted: 2019
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Y Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
355
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies