Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Considerations for the Potential U.S. Annexation of Greenland

11 Pages Posted: 5 May 2025 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: March 10, 2025

Abstract

There have been many proposals over the last 150 years for the United States to acquire Greenland.  However, the tax scholarship literature has neglected to focus on the tax consequences of such an annexation. Important and understudied issues include the taxation of the 58,000 Greenlanders, corporate taxation of controlled foreign corporations, and the potential extension of qualified opportunity zones to the world’s largest island.  This article contributes to the growing field of critical tax manifest destiny studies as the United States reconsiders its territorial scope from the Arctic Ocean to the Gulf of America (Gulf of Mexico).   

Every day, schoolchildren across America recite the names and capitals of some or all of the 50 states and five populated U.S. territories.  They might one day add Greenland and Nuuk to that list, and sing patriotic songs with some slight modifications provided by generative AI:

America the Beautiful feat. Greenland (2025 version)

O beautiful for spacious skies,
For amber waves of grain,
For frosty fjords where seals reside
And purple mountain reign!
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee,
From icy coasts to golden hosts,
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea.

O Greenland’s vast and icy shores,
With glaciers pure and grand,
Your towering cliffs and tundra wide,
A wonder in our hand.
Greenland! Greenland!
God bless your frozen might,
With beauty bold and stories told
Beneath the northern light.

O beautiful for treasures deep,
Under both earth and ice,
For minerals rare and wealth to share,
A future to entice!
America! America!
May Greenland join the way,
And both shall stand, united lands,
In freedom's bright array.

The analytical discussion can also lead to future research by the tax law community about the tax consequences and transitional issues if Canada were to be admitted to the United States — either as the 51st state or the 51st through 60th states.   

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Tax Considerations for the Potential U.S. Annexation of Greenland (March 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5202741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5202741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Sections 45(b)(9), 45Y(g) , volume 48
Reg
section 1.30D-2(b)(13)(ii)
U S
Constitution Article I, section 8, clause 1. 50 United States v. Vaello Madero Posted: 2022
U S
Constitution Article I, section 2, clause 3, and Article I, section 9 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
RANK
385,002
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies