Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Privacy Paradox in Digital Service Taxation

33 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2025 Last revised: 9 May 2025

Zhaoyi Li

Albany Law School

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

        As the digital economy expands, driven by activities like online shopping and advertising, tax jurisdictions face challenges as taxable activities frequently extend beyond national borders. This shift has led to the emergence of the European Union’s Digital Services Tax (“DST”) in the EU. While current discussions on this topic focus on the optimal methods and equitable distribution of taxing rights among countries, they overlook issues of user privacy inherent in taxes like the DST. In light of the ongoing debate over whether the U.S. should tax digital transactions, this article examines the legal framework of the DST and explores its implications from a data privacy perspective.

        By analyzing the impact of taxing the collection, use, and security of consumer data in the digital economy, this article illustrates the broader effects of digital taxes on privacy rights and compliance. While the DST offers fiscal benefits, it simultaneously raises significant privacy concerns that must be addressed to safeguard consumer interests in an increasingly data-driven marketplace. To resolve this tension, this Article advances a privacy-centric model for the DST—integrating privacy protection measures directly into the DST’s structure and objectives. This comprehensive approach underscores the need for a harmonized framework that balances the economic goals of taxation with the protection of individual privacy, fostering a fairer and more equitable digital ecosystem for all stakeholders.

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhaoyi, Privacy Paradox in Digital Service Taxation (March 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5206897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5206897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Brooks E Allen
Trump Revives and Expands the Battle Over Digital Services Taxes, SKADDEN PUBLICATION
Defending American Companies and Innovators From Overseas Extortion and Unfair Fines and Penalties, THE WHITE HOUSE Posted: 2025-02-21
George K Yin
Preventing Congressional Violations of Taxpayer Privacy, 69 TAX LAW Posted: 2015
Id
, p. 611 - 612
See Janet , Holtzblatt
Cuts in Spending and Staff Dim Hopes for Transformational Change at the IRS, TAX POL Posted: 2025-02
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
RANK
692,613
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies