Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Double Taxation
Treaties on Foreign Direct
Investment

RUDRA PUBLISHERS & DISTRIBUTORS NEW DELHI -110094 (INDIA)

ISBN: - 978-81-952502-2-6
Chapter 6 page number 68

20 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Firdous Hurra

University of Kashmir Srignar J & K

khalid Chisti

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 10, 2021

Abstract

In the contemporary global economic scenario, international

trade and investment are highly correlated with the
implementation of Double taxation treaties. Double taxation
treaties (DTTs) are signed by the countries to overcome
the barriers of double taxation. It also helps developing
countries in attracting foreign direct investment (FDI). Most
of the empirical studies have shown that there is a positive
impact of implementing tax treaties on attracting foreign
direct investment to developing countries. This topic is also
important because of the sizable costs and efforts involved
in drafting, negotiating and implementing tax treaties.
Also, lower withholding tax rates in tax treaties lead to a
direct and unnecessary revenue loss for treaty partners.
These revenue losses can be worth incurring if they lead
to sufficient growth and development of foreign direct
investment. This chapter critically reviews the literature
on the impact of implementing double taxation treaties on
attracting FDI inflows to developing nations. Further, the
chapter will also provide a clear understanding of Double
taxation treaties its advantages and limitations, tax treaty model conventions and future suggestions for policymakers
to develop strong and efficient treaty provisions

Suggested Citation:

Hurra, Firdous and Chisti, khalid, Impact of Double Taxation
Treaties on Foreign Direct
Investment
(April 10, 2021). RUDRA PUBLISHERS & DISTRIBUTORS NEW DELHI -110094 (INDIA)
ISBN: - 978-81-952502-2-6
Chapter 6 page number 68
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5207108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Financial & Investment Planning Educator eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies