Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Curbing Multinational Digital Tax Avoidance with The General Anti-Avoidance Rule

forthcoming in the American Business Law Journal, Volume 63, No. 1 (2026).

47 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 10 Apr 2025

Robert C. Bird

University of Connecticut - School of Business; University of Connecticut School of Law

Kathryn Kisska-Schulze

Clemson University College of Business

Date Written: April 10, 2025

Abstract

Large multinational companies (MNCs) are increasingly leveraging the enormous value embedded in the global digital economy. This has resulted in numerous innovations; however, it las likewise resulted in the loss of billions of dollars in tax revenue to governments due to outdated laws that generally assume a brick-and-mortar economy and residence-based taxation. Governments have tried to respond with a multitude of efforts to capture lost revenue and update tax laws to meet the realities of the digital era, but with only partial success. Resistance from MNC’s and disagreements amongst national governments have resulted in significant delays and half-hearted responses. The result is that current laws do not sufficiently capture lost tax revenue from an increasingly valuable digital environment.

This article proposes that a robust general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR) can help alleviate the problem of costly tax avoidance by MNCs. A GAAR is a mechanism that gives governments a general power to deny taxpayers the tax benefit of a transaction when the transaction’s primary purpose is merely to circumvent the payment of taxes. This manuscript defines the GAAR, presents the advantages and disadvantages of adopting GAARs, and shows how GAARs can be particularly effective in civil law systems. This manuscript then highlights New Zealand’s GAAR as a model of effective drafting and enforcement to stop tax avoidant behavior. Finally, this manuscript presents several carrots and sticks, with particular emphasis on a regime enacted in the UK that specifically deters serial tax avoiders, that can further strengthen GAARs introduced at the national level. The manuscript concludes that GAARs, utilized effectively and enacted in conjunction with strong tax laws, are a necessary and important tool for optimizing enforcement of legitimate tax laws in an increasingly global and digital economy.

Keywords: tax avoidance, general anti-avoidance rule, tax policy, global taxation, digital economy, multinational economy, base erosion, profit shifting, digital services taxes, general anti-avoidance rule, DST, GAAR, BEPS

Declaration of Interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

Ethics Approval

No research was conducted using human participants and/or animals.

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Robert C. and Kisska-Schulze, Kathryn, Curbing Multinational Digital Tax Avoidance with The General Anti-Avoidance Rule (April 10, 2025). forthcoming in the American Business Law Journal, Volume 63, No. 1 (2026)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5212900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5212900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
576
RANK
640,442
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies