Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Stakes of the Global Tax Deal for International Economic Governance, Richard Crawford Pugh Lecture on Tax Law & Policy at the University of San Diego Law School (March 18, 2025)

17 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 11 Apr 2025

Rebecca M. Kysar

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: February 18, 2025

Abstract

These remarks, prepared for the Richard Crawford Pugh Lecture on Tax Law & Policy at the University of San Diego Law school, tell the story of how the global tax deal, which was agreed upon by over 140 countries in 2021, came to be. Specifically, they explore a new version of international economic governance--one aimed at a more equitable distribution of the gains from globalization from both international and intranational perspectives--that ultimately propelled its success. Importantly, however, the story of the global tax deal is a contingent one. The dissatisfaction with globalization that led towards tax multilateralism can just as easily lead to nations to turn inwards, away from all forms of international economic governance, as we are now seeing. And given today’s fraught political moment, these remarks also explore the alternative, and darker, geopolitical vision with which opponents of the global tax deal are aligning themselves, perhaps unknowingly.

Keywords: global tax deal, tax policy, neoliberalism, trade deal, tariffs, international economic governance

Declaration of Interest

N/a

Ethics Approval

N/a

Funder Statement

N/A

Suggested Citation:

Kysar, Rebecca M., The Stakes of the Global Tax Deal for International Economic Governance, Richard Crawford Pugh Lecture on Tax Law & Policy at the University of San Diego Law School (March 18, 2025) (February 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5212946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5212946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
475,660
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies