Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Entity-Level to Consolidated Accounts: A Stronger Case for Tax Convergence in the Context of Pillar Two

7 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Kuan Hua Phua

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy; Deloitte Singapore

Date Written: January 30, 2023

Abstract

The convergence of tax and financial accounts has been a subject of extensive scholarly debate, recently reignited by the OECD's introduction of Pillar Two rules, which utilize consolidated financial statements to calculate the tax base of multinational companies (MNCs). This paper argues that the case for convergence is strengthened when using consolidated financial statements as a starting point to determine the tax base, rather than entity-level accounts. The paper is structured into four parts: Part I defines consolidation and examines the availability of consolidated financial accounts; Part II analyses the strengthened case for convergence using consolidated accounts; Part III reviews the inadequacies of financial accounts for taxation and discusses whether these issues persist with consolidated accounts; and Part IV concludes. The findings suggest that while consolidated financial accounts are readily available and offer advantages such as reduced compliance costs, increased transparency, and diminished tax avoidance opportunities, they also introduce complexities and increased compliance costs due to the need for extensive book-tax adjustments. Ultimately, the paper concludes that the tangible benefits of using consolidated financial statements in determining the tax base should not be overlooked, as the increased tax revenue from reduced tax avoidance may justify the higher compliance costs.

Keywords: Tax, Accounting, Tax base, Consolidated accounts, Convergence

Suggested Citation:

Phua, Kuan Hua, From Entity-Level to Consolidated Accounts: A Stronger Case for Tax Convergence in the Context of Pillar Two (January 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
E G Us , China Canada , India Brazil , South Australia , Africa
Oecd
BEPS Action 13: Guidance on the Implementation of Transfer Pricing Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting Posted: 2015
Judith Freedman , Schön
Financial and Tax Accounting: Transparency and 'Truth
Tax and Corporate Governance , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2008
F Gielen , Hegarty
An Accounting and Taxation Conundrum (The World Bank Centre For Financial Reporting Reform Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies