Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence Offerings and Likelihood to Pay for Individual Tax Preparation Services

43 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Paul Black

Auburn University

Kerry Inger

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Isaiah Messer

University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Haslam College of Business, Students; University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

While artificial intelligence (AI) offers great possibilities for accounting firms to provide tax services at low cost, it is important to consider how taxpayers will react to such service offerings. We examine whether taxpayer likelihood to pay for tax preparation services provided by AI or humans varies depending on the type of service offered: a search for errors or a search for savings. Using an experiment with taxpayer participants, we find that taxpayers are more likely to pay for humans to search for errors relative to AI (consistent with algorithm aversion), whereas we find no difference in likelihood to pay for a search for tax savings. Our theory suggests this occurs because a search for savings (errors) induces a promotion (prevention) regulatory focus which reduces (aligns with) algorithm aversion. Results have important implications for theory and inform service providers considering investments in AI.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Likelihood to pay for tax services, Savings, Errors, regulatory focus theory, prevention v. promotion focus

Ethics Approval

Approval to conduct the experiments reported in this manuscript was obtained from our Institutional Board of Review (IRB).

Funder Statement

Funding was gratefully acknowledged by Auburn University.

Suggested Citation:

Black, Paul and Inger, Kerry and Messer, Isaiah, Artificial Intelligence Offerings and Likelihood to Pay for Individual Tax Preparation Services (April 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5220043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5220043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R Anyoha
The history of artificial intelligence -Science in the News
Science in the News Posted: 2020
E Bauman , J Impink , M Mayberry , G A Mcgill
Executive regulatory focus and tax avoidance
SSRN Posted: 2023
D D Bobek , R C Hatfield , K Wentzel
An investigation of why taxpayers prefer refunds: A Theory of Planned Behavior approach
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 111 Posted: 2007
A Borges , P Gomez
How products induce regulatory fit: Evidence from the health domain
Journal of Consumer Marketing , volume 32 , issue 6 , p. 441 - 449 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
872,691
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies