Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Tax Treaty Override? A critical review of Income Tax Bill, 2025

9 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: April 17, 2025

Abstract

India’s incumbent direct tax legislation – the Income Tax Act – has been in vogue since 1961 and has suffered numerous amendments over the years during the course of its application. According to the Government, “[a]s a result of these amendments the basic structure of the Income-tax Act has been overburdened and language has become complex, increasing cost of compliance for taxpayers and hampering efficiency of direct-tax administration”, which has resulted into the Government introducing the ‘Income Tax Bill, 2025’ for public consultation with a view to replace the 1961 legislation. Various changes are proposed in the 2025 Bill, a compelling one is the provision dealing with the interface between India’s domestic law and tax treaties. This article attempts to critically examine the contours of the proposed provision from a ‘treaty override’ standpoint.

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun,

Tax Treaty Override? A critical review of Income Tax Bill, 2025

(April 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5221754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5221754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
706
RANK
588,428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies