Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Borders: Evaluating the Eighth Amendment's Excessive Fines Clause in the Context of Foreign Bank Account Reporting Violations

28 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2025 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Jude Mosher

University of New Hampshire School of Law (formerly Franklin Pierce Law Center)

Date Written: April 25, 2025

Abstract

The United States requires its taxpayers to report any foreign bank accounts that contain at least $10,000. To fulfill their reporting obligations, taxpayers must file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (FBAR) with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCen) each year. The United States penalizes individuals who fail to comply with their reporting obligations. Typically, the penalty for violating the statute is limited to $10,000. However, if the violation is found to be willful, the maximum penalty increases to the greater of $100,000 or 50 percent of the account balance at the time of the violation. This Note examines the applicability of the Eighth Amendment's Excessive Fines Clause to the civil penalty imposed for willfully failing to file their FBAR. This inquiry stems from a recent circuit split, in which the First Circuit held the penalty falls outside the scope of the Excessive Fines Clause, while the Eleventh Circuit reached the opposite conclusion. This Note explores the historical and constitutional underpinnings of the Excessive Fines Clause, the legislative development of FBAR penalties, and the contrasting judicial analyses in Toth v. United States and United States v. Schwarzbaum. Ultimately, the Note argues that FBAR penalties serve a punitive purpose sufficient to trigger Eighth Amendment scrutiny. However, the Note argues that although the statutory structure of the penalty is severe, it is not facially unconstitutional. The Note recommends that the government be prudent in issuing penalties to ensure they remain constitutionally proportionate. 

Keywords: FBAR, Excessive Fines Clause, Eighth Amendment, Penalty, Circuit Split

Suggested Citation:

Mosher, Jude, Beyond Borders: Evaluating the Eighth Amendment's Excessive Fines Clause in the Context of Foreign Bank Account Reporting Violations (April 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5230668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5230668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
See Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about international individual tax matters, IRS.GOV , volume 13 Posted: 2025
Toth
, volume 16
Toth
, volume 16
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies