Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes as a source of public monetary income in the Republic of Kosovo

11 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Burhan Rexhepi

UBT College

Date Written: June 01, 2023

Abstract

The issue of public revenues, i.e. social revenues have a mutual relationship with the existence of public and social bodies and their functions. The Republic of Kosovo as the youngest state to the world is to the phase of constitution and consolidation of its development. As such it has a number of challenges and problems. One of them is the consolidation and creation of stable macroeconomic policies, including monetary policy. Exactly this will be the topic of research and issues that will deal with during this paper. It is impossible for it to function as a state without a sound revenue system. Kosovo mainly receives revenues from certain sources, and among them, the most important source is taxes. Taxes, among others, not only to the Republic of Kosovo, but also beyond. The structure of this paper is divided into several main parts. As a start, an attempt will be made to give a perspective on taxes as the main sources of public revenue and its impact on different economic systems to different countries. Then an overview will be given on the composition and content of the tax system of the Republic of Kosovo and its comparison with the tax systems of the surrounding countries. In the study, a variety of methods were adopted, such as descriptive method, comparative method, interviews and surveys, and analysis of various acts and statements. The obtained data were analyzed using the statistical tests, such as regressions and hypothesis testing. Results have revealed that Kosovo's budget is like most budgets to the world, which bases its revenues on taxes to a very large extent, respectively with an absolute percentage. Depending on the tax policies set by the Republic of Kosovo, the budget structure of taxes can be seen to terms of the share of taxes to the total value of Gross Domestic Product.

Keywords: Republic of Kosovo, tax, factoring industry, public income

Declaration of Interest

Taxes as a source of public monetary income in the Republic of Kosovo Burhan Reshat REXHEPI1* 1UBT College - Higher Education Institution, Department, Business Administration and Economics, Pristina, Kosovo Email: burhan.rexhepi@ubt-uni.net *Corresponding Author

Ethics Approval

The state as a class organization which tends to maintain the mode of production that benefits it definitely has to dispose of a sufficient amount of money which would ensure an economic, political and legal stability. Even Voltaire to one case emphasizes "The essence of governance lies to money" as an expression of sufficient resources to any society. Today it is impossible to imagine the functioning of a national economy without the public sector, which accounts for at least 1/3 of the economic activity of any national economy. Modern economies are rightly considered mixed as public finances increasingly interfere to the social, stabilizing and developmental aspects of national economies. Tax systems, volume and structure of public revenues to modern states are not only fiscal components, but increasingly include the social, developmental and stabilizing dimension of national economies. Taxes, customs, duties, contributions and various gifts are the main sources with which the state coffers are filled. Through that box, all the empty points that are presented to the company are filled to, points that represent the public expenses. The Republic of Kosovo as a state which is to the process of establishing its routes or foundations.

Funder Statement

The issue of public revenues, i.e. social revenues have a mutual relationship with the existence of public and social bodies and their functions. The Republic of Kosovo as the youngest state to the world is to the phase of constitution and consolidation of its development. As such it has a number of challenges and problems. One of them is the consolidation and creation of stable macroeconomic policies, including monetary policy. Exactly this will be the topic of research and issues that will deal with during this paper. It is impossible for it to function as a state without a sound revenue system. Kosovo mainly receives revenues from certain sources, and among them, the most important source is taxes. Taxes, among others, not only to the Republic of Kosovo, but also beyond. The structure of this paper is divided into several main parts. As a start, an attempt will be made to give a perspective on taxes as the main sources of public revenue and its impact on different economic systems to different countries. Then an overview will be given on the composition and content of the tax system of the Republic of Kosovo and its comparison with the tax systems of the surrounding countries. In the study, a variety of methods were adopted, such as descriptive method, comparative method, interviews and surveys, and analysis of various acts and statements. The obtained data were analyzed using the statistical tests, such as regressions and hypothesis testing. Results have revealed that Kosovo's budget is like most budgets to the world, which bases its revenues on taxes to a very large extent, respectively with an absolute percentage. Depending on the tax policies set by the Republic of Kosovo, the budget structure of taxes can be seen to terms of the share of taxes to the total value of Gross Domestic Product.

Suggested Citation:

Rexhepi, Burhan, Taxes as a source of public monetary income in the Republic of Kosovo (June 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5232735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5232735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Law no. 03 / L-113 -On Corporate İncome Tax
Law no. 03 / L-114 -On Value Added Tax
Law no. 03 / L-115 -On Personal İncome Tax
Law no. 03 / L-146 -On Value Added Tax
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies