Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preferential Personal Income Tax Regimes in the European Union: A New Form of Permitted (Harmful) Tax Competition?

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 245-288

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Rita Szudoczky

Independent

Camilo C. Rodríguez Peña

Independent

Abstract

The aim of this contribution is to examine whether the current normative framework of the European Union is adequately equipped to deal with the potentially harmful effects of the so-called preferential personal income tax regimes (PPITRs). For that purpose, after providing an overview of these special tax measures within the EU landscape, the article analyses whether these regimes could be considered a new form of harmful tax competition under the international soft law instruments developed by the OECD and European Union. It is highlighted that these instruments at present do not cover personal income tax rules, although the effects of PPITRs can be as harmful as those of preferential corporate income tax regimes. With regard to other EU instruments (State aid rules, fundamental freedoms and the fundamental right to equality), it is concluded that they are not adequate to tackle in a systematic way the potential harmful effects of special tax regimes targeting individuals. To remedy this hiatus, a proposal is made to extend the mandate of the EU Code of Conduct and adapt the currently applicable criteria under the Code to enable it to capture harmful PPITRs.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/g98bvq

Keywords: individual income tax, tax policy, State aid, tax system, fundamental freedoms, equal treatment

Suggested Citation:

Szudoczky, Rita and Rodríguez Peña, Camilo C., Preferential Personal Income Tax Regimes in the European Union: A New Form of Permitted (Harmful) Tax Competition?. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 245-288, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/g98bvq
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies