Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UN Tax Pillars to Address Capital Concentration (Through Inheritance Levies) and Wealth Flight (Through Exit Taxes): Implications for the European Union

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 9

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Domenico Imparato

Independent

Abstract

The article investigates the rising concentration of capital ownership, drawing evidence from the United States, Germany and other European states, and its impact on widening wealth inequality. It warns of modern economies morphing into an “inheritocracy”, where corporate equity and financial assets concentrate across generations. The analysis sheds light on the limitations of income tax systems in addressing wealth inequality in the context of high capital mobility. To tackle these challenges and building on the OECD’s experience with a global minimum tax for large corporations, the article advocates for a UN-led multilateral approach supporting Global Minimum Inheritance Taxes and a Global Minimum Exit Tax to prevent a race to the bottom in taxing high-net-worth individuals and deter wealth flight. By coordinating these taxes at a supranational level, the article supports a fairer tax burden distribution and emphasizes the revenue potential of inheritance levies. Additionally, drawing from the US Expatriation Tax, it explores the legal feasibility of the European Union harmonizing an EU-wide exit tax to mitigate capital flight. Ultimately, these measures have the potential to enhance progressivity across tax systems.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1edahnb

Keywords: inequality, wealth tax, exit tax, global minimum tax

Suggested Citation:

Imparato, Domenico, UN Tax Pillars to Address Capital Concentration (Through Inheritance Levies) and Wealth Flight (Through Exit Taxes): Implications for the European Union. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1edahnb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies