Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Cooperative Compliance for Minimizing Cross-Border VAT/GST Disputes

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 561-599

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Jeffrey P. Owens

Independent

Anastasiya Piakarskaya

Independent

Timoleon Angelos Christodoulopoulos

Independent

Olena Sushkova

Independent

Abstract

This article explores the potential of cooperative compliance (CC) in preventing cross-border VAT-GST disputes. Given the current international taxation landscape lacks a mechanism enabling expeditious and cost-effective resolution of these disputes, minimization mechanisms, such as CC, come to the fore to ensure legal certainty and avoid tax controversies at the international level. The authors delve into the key features of CC relevant for VAT/GST dispute prevention. Considering the inherently “international” nature of cross-border VAT/GST disputes, the article examines the feasibility of extending domestic CC programmes to encompass non-resident taxpayers. Moreover, it delves into the prospect of minimizing disputes specific to certain industries. Lastly, the authors assess the advantages and disadvantages of employing CC for cross-border VAT/GST dispute prevention, drawing on evidence obtained from interviews with representatives of MNEs. The authors propose that the next step in establishing tax certainty in the VAT/GST area through CC could entail the development of multilateral CC (MCC) programmes.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1pnw1rj

Keywords: cooperative compliance, VAT, GST, MNE

Suggested Citation:

Owens, Jeffrey P. and Piakarskaya, Anastasiya and Christodoulopoulos, Timoleon Angelos and Sushkova, Olena, The Use of Cooperative Compliance for Minimizing Cross-Border VAT/GST Disputes. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 561-599, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1pnw1rj
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies