Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Assessment of Two Recent EU Commission Proposals to Impose (More) VAT Obligations on Platforms

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 3-53

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Marie C. S. Lamensch

Independent

Madeleine M. W. D. Merkx

Independent

Anne D. M. Janssen

Independent

Jurian I. W. Lock

Independent

Abstract

The VAT e-commerce package entered into application on 1 July 2021. It imposed new obligations on e-commerce platforms, including VAT liability and record-keeping obligations with respect to underlying transactions. In December 2022 and May 2023, the European Commission adopted a series of proposals that are meant to already adjust or significantly broaden the scope of these obligations. In addition, new obligations are proposed concerning platforms that facilitate short-term accommodation rental and passenger transport services. In this article, the authors seek to assess the expected impact of the proposed rules and to determine to what extent the compliance burden and associated risks would be increased as compared to the situation as it stands since 2021.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/x52sh9

Keywords: VAT, e-commerce, platform economy

Suggested Citation:

Lamensch, Marie C. S. and Merkx, Madeleine M. W. D. and Janssen, Anne D. M. and Lock, Jurian I. W., Qualitative Assessment of Two Recent EU Commission Proposals to Impose (More) VAT Obligations on Platforms. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 3-53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/x52sh9
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies