Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remote Work and the Taxation of Individuals: A Developing World Perspective and the Argument for Inter-Nation Equity

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 325-348

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Shaun Parsons

Independent

Afton Titus

Independent

Abstract

Technological development has rapidly increased the mobility of labour, undermining the implicit assumption that employees will be physically located in the same jurisdiction as their employers, and calling into question the basis on which taxing rights over employment income are allocated within the international tax system. To date, the literature on reform in this area has been dominated by the developed world. This article brings a developing world perspective to the debate. The authors argue that such reform needs to consider not only pragmatism but also inter-nation equity to achieve legitimacy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/29w4s8e

Keywords: remote working, social security, employment income, digital nomad, developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Shaun and Titus, Afton, Remote Work and the Taxation of Individuals: A Developing World Perspective and the Argument for Inter-Nation Equity. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 325-348, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233527 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/29w4s8e
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
135
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Employee Benefits, Compensation & Pension Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies