Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What's Under the Hood of “Tax in a Smartphone”? A Comparative Legal Analysis in Light of the Ukrainian Experience

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 10

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Vadym Tsymbal

Independent

Abstract

This study examines the impact of digitalisation on Ukraine's tax administration amid ongoing military conflict. In a time when law faces a crisis of distributive justice, the introduction of digital elements adds complexity to tax management by introducing new variables. Grounded in legal realism and the theory of legal formants, this study explores legal challenges and the added intricacies of digital tax administration. Given Ukraine’s unique situation being aggrieved by continuous military aggression, the study departs from traditional comparative legal studies, but rather seeks to provide understanding of the transformative trends in tax administration and the influence of digital tax transplants in conditions of armed conflict and its implications.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2m6pmsd

Keywords: tax authorities, digital economy, tax system, domestic tax law

Suggested Citation:

Tsymbal, Vadym, What's Under the Hood of “Tax in a Smartphone”? A Comparative Legal Analysis in Light of the Ukrainian Experience. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2m6pmsd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
111
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies