Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking the Double Tax Paradigm

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 54-102

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Jeroen M. Lammers

Independent

Tarcísio Diniz Magalhães

Independent

Abstract

The success story of economic globalization is often linked to an increased freedom of capital movement, facilitated by the existence of more than 3,000 bilateral tax treaties, the primary purpose of which is to prevent double taxation. Even the most outspoken critics of the international tax regime subscribe to the notion that double taxation is detrimental to global growth, development and welfare. Yet, they argue that, all things considered, tax treaties might not be worth signing. Based on an extensive review of the available tax policy and economics literature, this article shows that there is not enough of a normative or empirical basis for thinking that double taxation will necessarily restrict capital flows, provided that the combined effective tax burden is kept at a reasonable level. At the same time, treaties seem to provide investors with a legal certainty that is key to cross-border business activity. This article posits that there should be more emphasis on the legal certainty aspect of tax treaties and less on their limited capacity to prevent double taxation. In fact, relaxing the double tax paradigm could help to significantly improve tax treaties, with a view to preserving their role in fostering international commerce and investment. In this respect, the authors propose a simplified tax treaty model that, by allowing an agreed overlap between home-state and host-state taxes, would diminish overall implementation costs while increasing legal certainty and reducing the risk of lengthy tax disputes, thus benefiting both taxpayers and tax administrations. The article further demonstrates that this approach is superior to the current Pillar One proposal and other popular systemic reform suggestions in the literature, specifically the destination-based cashflow tax (DBCFT) and global formulary apportionment.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/25cmxc

Keywords: capital assets, tax treaty, tax policy, tax compliance, double taxation

Suggested Citation:

Lammers, Jeroen M. and Magalhães, Tarcísio Diniz, Breaking the Double Tax Paradigm. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 54-102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/25cmxc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies