Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Skewed Playing Field between Private Equity and Family Ownership Hemmed in by Intra- and Inter-Country Tax Non-Neutralities

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 177-242

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Domenico Imparato

Independent

Abstract

This article investigates the ownership and management dynamics of private equity investments and family-controlled holdings in the United Kingdom and Italy, and reveals a tax imbalance in their pursuit of corporate control over publicly listed firms. By employing an interdisciplinary approach and a quantitative case study analysis applied to corporate and tax planning, this article illustrates that whereas UK taxation favours private equity, Italy leans towards controlling families, highlighting its implications for the private equity industry’s competitiveness and family inter generational succession, both domestically and across borders. Hence, with no ex ante preference for a specific form of ownership model (family or private equity), the article sheds light on the impact of tax considerations on corporate control decisions, and therefore advocates for tax neutrality to level the playing field between family and private equity control. Last, the article observes a greater reliance on leverage in private equity corporate governance models compared to controlling families, suggesting that it is not the legal availability of a tax shelter (interest deductions) per se that prompts its use, but rather the controlling investor's profile that weighs on borrowing preferences.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/emtrqd

Keywords: private equity, family corporation, succession, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Imparato, Domenico, The Skewed Playing Field between Private Equity and Family Ownership Hemmed in by Intra- and Inter-Country Tax Non-Neutralities. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 177-242, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/emtrqd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
98
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies