Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a Clear and Autonomous Definition of Tax Measures in International Investment Agreements

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 1

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Iacopo A. Accolla

Independent

Abstract

This contribution is concerned with addressing an increasingly topical issue within international economic law and, in particular, the interface of international tax and investment law, which has seen unprecedented developments in recent times and now appears to have reached a point of discontinuity. This contribution focuses, in particular, on reconstructing an autonomous contemporary definition of “tax measures” under international investment agreements in light of the contribution of scholarship and of recent investment arbitration awards, contrasting these trends with developments in the area of tax treaty interpretation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/17bx0py

Keywords: tax policy, investment treaty, treaty interpretation, tax sovereignty

Suggested Citation:

Accolla, Iacopo A., Towards a Clear and Autonomous Definition of Tax Measures in International Investment Agreements. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/17bx0py
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies