Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing High-Net-Worth Individuals: Recommendations from an African Perspective

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 719-759

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Annet Wanyana Oguttu

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author considers how African countries can increase their tax base by taxing “high-net-worth individuals” (HNWIs), a small but growing segment of society that has the potential to contribute to revenue collection but is largely undertaxed. While the article sets out the justifications for African countries to focus on the taxation of HNWIs, it also notes that countries generally face various challenges in taxing HNWIs. To address the challenges, the article refers to some international guidelines that African countries can adopt in order to effectively tax HNWIs. With South Africa being the country on the continent with the highest number of HNWIs, the article focuses on the approach it has taken to tax HNWIs, in the hope that South Africa’s success story can be emulated by other African countries that face challenges in ensuring tax compliance by HNWIs.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/19p3tch

Keywords: high net worth individual, global minimum tax, individual income tax, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Oguttu, Annet Wanyana, Taxing High-Net-Worth Individuals: Recommendations from an African Perspective. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 719-759, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233538 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/19p3tch
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies