Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Neutrality Treatment of Investment Funds in the European Union

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 441-460

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Ana Paula Dourado

Independent

Jessica M. Müller

Independent

Leidson Rangel

Independent

Christoph Spengel

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the legal consequences and assesses the economic impact of the differing tax treatment of investment funds in Portugal, Germany and Luxembourg before and after the Allianzgi-Fonds landmark decision, by the CJEU. Before the Allianzgi-Fonds decision the Portuguese investment taxation discriminated against foreign investments by levying a withholding tax on foreign compared to domestic investments. The Allianzgi-Fonds decision prohibited this discriminatory treatment. Therefore, our article examines whether the Portuguese CIT exemption extended to non-resident UCITS will lead to tax neutrality treatment of investment funds in the EU. Overall, we confirm that the abolishment of the discriminatory withholding tax can considerably reduce the effective tax levels for cross-border investments. Moreover, the abolishment also diminishes the domestic investment bias. Nonetheless, the results do not confirm the achievement of neutrality.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2fzg5c2

Keywords: tax neutrality, investment fund, foreign investment, withholding tax, ECJ case law, UCITS

Suggested Citation:

Dourado, Ana Paula and Müller, Jessica M. and Rangel, Leidson and Spengel, Christoph, Tax Neutrality Treatment of Investment Funds in the European Union. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 441-460, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2fzg5c2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
163
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies