Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Mobility and Double Taxation: Proposals for Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Tax Treaties

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 8

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Manuel Benítez Pérez

Independent

Abstract

The application and interpretation of Double Taxation Conventions is not always uncontroversial. In situations of global mobility of individuals, it is increasingly common for lack of information and evidentiary difficulties to generate frictions in the interpretation and application of the Conventions between the different jurisdictions, leading to undesirable double taxation situations that are difficult or impossible to resolve. These situations must be resolved in accordance with a mutual agreement procedure, which have proved to be an inefficient and, in many cases, ineffective tool for resolving this type of conflict from a practical point of view. From the perspective of the European Union, this issue is examined in the light of fundamental freedoms and the general principle of non-discrimination. Legal amendments are proposed at the conventional and European level to put an end to the problems around interpretation and application of the Conventions.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/287yhhn

Keywords: tax treaty, remote working, fundamental freedoms, MAP

Suggested Citation:

Benítez Pérez, Manuel, Global Mobility and Double Taxation: Proposals for Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Tax Treaties. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/287yhhn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies