Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banned: Fishing in the Data Tax Lake? A European, Belgian and Dutch Perspective on the Legal Grounds Prohibiting Fishing Expeditions

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 129-176

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Liesa Keunen

Independent

Abstract

Data gathering and analysis are valuable tools in the global fight against tax fraud. However, their use raises significant legal questions, particularly regarding the extent to which it could qualify as a prohibited fishing expedition. Previous research identified two main characteristics of fishing expeditions: speculation and excessiveness. Judges and scholars claim fishing expeditions are prohibited even though a specific legal ground for this prohibition is lacking. Therefore, it is crucial to examine the legal grounds that can be relied upon to assess the legitimacy and limitations of (big) data tax audits in relation to the prohibition of fishing expeditions.By analysing case law from the Council of Europe, the European Union, Belgium and the Netherlands, this article identifies the implicit legal grounds that support the prohibition of fishing expeditions. It demonstrates how the prohibition is incorporated into the human rights framework, the general principles of good governance and the relevance criterion embedded in European and national legal provisions with regard to investigative powers of tax administrations, providing a comprehensive perspective on their rationale to prohibit fishing expeditions.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/8qrdfa

Keywords: data analytics, tax fraud, case law, tax good governance, tax authorities, AI, platform economy, cryptocurrency

Suggested Citation:

Keunen, Liesa, Banned: Fishing in the Data Tax Lake? A European, Belgian and Dutch Perspective on the Legal Grounds Prohibiting Fishing Expeditions. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 129-176, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/8qrdfa
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
85
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies