Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Subject-to-Tax Rule in East Africa: Is it Worth it?

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 600-634

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Antonia Strachey

Independent

Abstract

The two-pillar approach focusses on BEPS issues in developing countries to a greater extent than preceding OECD agreements. In particular, the Subject-to-Tax Rule (STTR) is intended to address BEPS risks in low-income countries’ tax treaties. BEPS is undoubtedly a critical issue in East Africa since corporate income tax is an unusually important source of tax revenue in Africa. This article analyses the STTR alongside treaties and domestic law to understand the likely impact of the rule in the region. It also considers the diverse domestic policy landscapes to explore whether the STTR is an attractive measure for countries in East Africa. The author believes that implementation of the rule will be complex, challenging already stretched tax administrations. Furthermore, some low-income countries may prefer not to engage with reforms that increase source taxation. The analysis concludes that any hopes that the STTR will mark a major step in addressing BEPS in this part of the world are likely to be disappointed, but it could form part of a portfolio of measures for some specific countries.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1376n6h

Keywords: STTR (OECD), Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), developing countries, tax treaty

Suggested Citation:

Strachey, Antonia, The Subject-to-Tax Rule in East Africa: Is it Worth it?. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 600-634, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1376n6h
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies