Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Instruments Used to Counter Illicit Financial Flows at the International Level and Their Application to Matters of Taxation

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 6

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Pasquale Pistone

Independent

Sergio Messina

Independent

Sam van der Vlugt

Independent

Abstract

Tax-related illicit financial flows (TIFFs) deprive states of much-needed public resources and hinder revenue mobilization from achieving sustainable development efforts. Currently, there is no conceptual clarity on the phenomenon of TIFFs, with different definitions and approaches adopted within different regional and international settings. To address the existing gaps, this study starts by mapping the diverse qualifications of TIFFs with particular regard to the different legal statuses that can be attached to behaviour deemed illicit. This requires a clarification of the conceptual differences between tax evasion and tax avoidance, and more specifically, between criminal law and (criminal) tax law. While the international tax law agenda has prioritized countering tax avoidance, the issue of tax evasion remains inadequately addressed within the existing framework. In this regard, this study concludes that when it comes to aligning the notion of tax crimes as predicate offence for existing criminal law, countries should be allowed to keep their de minimis qualifying rules to ensure flexibility and respect national sovereignty, thus ensuring proportionality and the respect for taxpayers’ fundamental rights.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/22zan07

Keywords: illicit financial flows, tax evasion, tax avoidance, tax sovereignty, taxpayers' rights

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Messina, Sergio and Vlugt, Sam van der, The Instruments Used to Counter Illicit Financial Flows at the International Level and Their Application to Matters of Taxation. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/22zan07
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies