Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Gulf Cooperation Council Legal Order, Institutions and Taxation

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 4

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Sarah Khaled Alsultan

Independent

Abstract

Tax scholars worldwide are understandably unfamiliar with the GCC legal framework and the GCC’s role in taxation. This is because the GCC’s main agreements and the organization itself do not classify legal acts into primary and secondary acts, define the scope of supremacy of GCC legal acts over GCC domestic laws, or illuminate the direct application or direct effects of GCC acts. Consequently, the classification and nature of the GCC’s tax laws and sources are unclear. This work is the first scholarly attempt to fill this gap. It also describes the main institutions of the GCC and the role played by each institution when enacting a tax act. This work briefly refers to the European Union and the United States when analysing the GCC legal framework in order to complement the European and American readers’ understanding.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/33x0mvt

Keywords: domestic tax law, VAT, excise duty

Suggested Citation:

Khaled Alsultan, Sarah, The Gulf Cooperation Council Legal Order, Institutions and Taxation. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 7 (2024), Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/33x0mvt
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
125
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies