Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interpretation and Application of General Anti-Avoidance Rules after BEPS and ATAD: Nordic Perspectives

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 508-560

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Henrik Skar

Independent

Reijo Knuutinen

Independent

Peter Koerver Schmidt

Independent

Richard Croneberg

Independent

Abstract

This article compares general measures against tax avoidance and the design of general anti-avoidance rules (GAARs) in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden. It focuses on aspects such as tax benefits, tax purposes, economic substance, and breaches of legislative purpose. The article also examines potential compliance issues between national GAARs, tax treaties, and the European Union’s Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD). The analysis highlights variations in how the national GAARs apply economic substance considerations and the level of pragmatism allowed when assessing conflicts with the purpose of the circumvented legislation. Additionally, it shows that differences in the wording of the GAARs, such as requirements related to tax purposes, do not necessarily result in practical differences due to other GAAR elements reducing or nullifying them. For similar reasons, the authors conclude that compliance issues between the national GAARs and the ATAD GAAR’s requirements are unlikely, despite some differences in wording. Whilst focusing on the Nordic region, the article offers insights relevant to broader international contexts, as the diverse approaches, distinctions, and issues identified mirror tax developments worldwide.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/23e6963

Keywords: tax avoidance, GAAR, economic substance, tax compliance, ATAD

Suggested Citation:

Skar, Henrik and Knuutinen, Reijo and Koerver Schmidt, Peter and Croneberg, Richard, Interpretation and Application of General Anti-Avoidance Rules after BEPS and ATAD: Nordic Perspectives. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 508-560, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/23e6963
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
172
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies