Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Transfer of Going Concern: How to Prevent VAT Distortions When Applying the TOGC No-Supply Rule Across Different Member States?

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 2

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Afonso Costa Gomes

Independent

Abstract

This study reviews the scope and requirements of the no-supply rule foreseen in Council Directive 2006/112/CE of 28 November 2006 applicable to the transfer of going concerns and critically analyses mismatches arising from the application of this rule in cross-border transactions. Grey areas still exist in this matter despite significant Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) case law developments. In fact, the different requirements and scopes of application of the no-supply rule as transposed by the Member States lead to different VAT consequences for transfers of going concerns (TOGC), which will be more onerous in some Member States than in others. As a result, unsolved mismatches may arise at the level of the involved taxpayers, affecting the competitiveness of Member States and opening doors to “TOGC shopping”. The study thus presents and analyses three proposals of initiatives/measures that may foster harmonization in this field and address said mismatches.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/303319x

Keywords: VAT, VAT Directive, going concern, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Gomes, Afonso Costa, Cross-Border Transfer of Going Concern: How to Prevent VAT Distortions When Applying the TOGC No-Supply Rule Across Different Member States?. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/303319x
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies