Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Race for New Residents: Preferential Regimes and Rethinking Tax Residency Under the New Phase of Tax Competition

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 349-378

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Eleonora Addarii

Independent

Abstract

Preferential regimes aimed at attracting new residents have become widely adopted in recent decades. This includes measures offering residence or citizenship in exchange for investments, as well as provisions for digital nomads designed to facilitate the settlement of these highly mobile individuals. The shift to individual-focused tax policies and their proliferation, once marginal, has introduced in the field of personal taxation mechanisms of attraction and tax competition previously associated mostly with corporate taxation, raising two primary issues. First, like any form of harmful tax competition, it may lead to the improper allocation of the tax base and the risk of double non-taxation. Second, it may result in forms of abuse that affect the same states, nullifying the desired benefits of increased revenue and economic development. As a result, the creation of new rules or, at the very least, international standards to address the adverse consequences of such policies requires careful consideration. This includes reevaluating the concept of tax residence in a mobile reality and exploring ways to coordinate national policies to curb the ongoing race to the bottom.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/25djn2f

Keywords: remote working, tax policy, employment income, digital nomad, residence, tax competition

Suggested Citation:

Addarii, Eleonora, The Race for New Residents: Preferential Regimes and Rethinking Tax Residency Under the New Phase of Tax Competition. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 349-378, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/25djn2f
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies