Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The HOT Proposal and Primary EU Law: An Examination and Suggestions to Address Possible Validity Concerns

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 465-507

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Moritz Scherleitner

Independent

Noora Mäki

Independent

Abstract

As part of the September 2023 package, the European Commission published a proposal for a council directive establishing a Head Office Tax system for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (HOT-proposal). Under these rules, eligible companies would be able to file the corporate tax return for their EU permanent establishments pursuant to the tax base rules of the head office state, while applying the tax rate of the source state. This is a significant simplification. Problematically, though, the current proposal includes some poorly founded and inconsistent exclusions of companies from being able to benefit from this genuine advantage. This matters, because it can impose a substantial disadvantage on certain taxpayers, without there being a compelling reason for doing so. Alerted by these considerations, the article conducts an analysis of the proposal under primary EU law and outlines ways to overcome the identified tensions. While being focused on a concrete issue, the article casts ahead a more conceptual problem that deserves more attention in literature. How easily can the European Court of Justice take the defence of taxpayers' economic rights in the course of (factually irreversible) secondary EU direct tax law?

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2pwwxr0

Keywords: HOT Proposal, tax policy, PE, SME

Suggested Citation:

Scherleitner, Moritz and Mäki, Noora, The HOT Proposal and Primary EU Law: An Examination and Suggestions to Address Possible Validity Concerns. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 465-507, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2pwwxr0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies