Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Conflictual Core of Global Tax Cooperation

World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 663-717

Posted: 28 Apr 2025

Shu-Yi Oei

Duke University School of Law

Diane M. Ring

Boston College - Law School

Abstract

It is widely argued that the world is in a new era of global tax cooperation, evidenced by the multilateral OECD/G20 project on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). This article argues, however, that this cooperation-centric account masks fundamental conflicts between developing and developed countries, which recently culminated in a vote to shift reform work to the United Nations. This article contends that developing country-centered criticisms of the project are not random but instead reflect coherent concerns about the wide historical gulf in power and resources between developing and developed countries and how the BEPS reforms ignore, and may even exacerbate, that gulf. The reform’s defenders have largely missed this fundamental crux of the criticisms, focusing primarily on the project’s incremental short-term benefits for inter-developing country tax competition. This article’s framework for analysing global tax reform incorporates these deep conflicts and thus more accurately assesses the reform’s promise and risks.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1attv49

Keywords: BEPS Project (OECD), developing countries, tax reform, tax competition, risk

Suggested Citation:

Oei, Shu-Yi and Ring, Diane M., The Conflictual Core of Global Tax Cooperation. World Tax Journal: Vol. 16 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 663-717, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5233541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1attv49
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies