Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Burden on Offshore Service Companies : The ISS in Offshore Service Provision 

RCMOS - Revista Científica Multidisciplinar O Saber, volume 1, issue 8, 2024[10.51473/rcmos.v1i8.2021.953]

16 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Alex Porto Alegre de Almeida

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 21, 2021

Abstract

With the growing expansion of the oil and natural gas extraction and production market and the consequent manifestation of tax potential, several currents of opinion have emerged regarding the taxation of such activity, with regard to the power of Municipalities to tax services of any nature provided in their offshore projections. The meaning of the term offshore will be demonstrated, as well as a brief history of the ISS, and a comparison will be made with what the Brazilian Constitution deals with. Article 12 of Decree Law 406/68 will also be reviewed, the rules of which were maintained in Complementary Law No. 116/2003, which defines the service provider establishment as the place of provision of the service, with exceptions in the case of civil construction. This divergence has resulted in tax disputes between Municipalities, some demanding the tax because the service provider establishment is in their territory, as interpreted by art. 12 of DL 406/68, others, due to the fact that the service provided is being effectively provided in its maritime projections, applying the understanding of the STJ (Place of effective provision of the service). In view of the explanation, one must ask: is it possible to charge ISS on the provision of offshore services by a Municipality? Given that the territorial sea is an exclusive asset of the Federal Union? By concluding that the services performed in maritime waters, that is, offshore services cannot constitute a hypothesis of incidence of ISS, given that maritime waters do not comprise the territory of the Municipality, where it is the exclusive competence of the Union, which in turn, does not have tax competence to be an active subject of a tax hypothesis to which the material criterion is already used to demand another tax.

Keywords: ISS, Offshore, Unconstitutionality

Suggested Citation:

Porto Alegre de Almeida, Alex, Tax Burden on Offshore Service Companies : The ISS in Offshore Service Provision  (February 21, 2021). RCMOS - Revista Científica Multidisciplinar O Saber, volume 1, issue 8, 2024[10.51473/rcmos.v1i8.2021.953], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5234389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Marcio Branco
The new system of taxation of international services and the BUSCHMANN, Marcus Vinicius Posted: 2012
Hugo Machado , De Brito
Federal _________. from the Studies and opinions: oil and gas law. RIBEIRO, Marilda Rosado de Sá in: Complementary Law No. 116 -July 31, 2003. Provides for the Tax on Services of Any Nature, under the jurisdiction of the Municipalities and the Federal District, and contains other provisions
Tax Law Course -2010 -São Paulo -31st edition -Malheiros Editores Posted: 2003
Brazil
Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil of 1988 Posted: 2009
Reinaldo Democritus
COÊLHO, Sacha Calmon Navarro. Brazilian Tax Law Course -2009 -import of services in the oil industry
Studies and opinions: oil and gas law Posted: 1995-04-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Planning eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies