Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise and Entrenchment of the Antitax Movement: A Review Article

Political Science Quarterly, qqaf041 (2025)

Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 25-20

20 Pages Posted: 5 May 2025

Ajay K. Mehrotra

Northwestern Pritzker School of Law; American Bar Foundation

Date Written: May 04, 2025

Abstract

Despite the vast and growing literature on U.S. conservatism, one aspect of the rise of American conservatism appears to have garnered less attention: the antitax movement that has been at the center of the Rightward pivot in U.S. and global politics. Micheal J. Graetz's new book, The Power to Destroy: How the Antitax Movement Hijacked America is thus a welcomed addition to the still sparse literature exploring the historical relationship between U.S. tax resistance and modern American conservatism. Graetz has written a wide-ranging and persuasive, if at times perplexing, book about how a broad and varied array of Right-wing individuals and organizations—from politicians to evangelical ministers to television and radio personalities to The Tea Party and D.C.-based think tanks—all came together to ensure that hostility to taxes would become a unifying principle of the modern Republican Party and the cornerstone of current U.S. fiscal and economic policy. Relying on his own professional experiences and his deep knowledge of tax law, Graetz makes many significant and timely contributions not only to our understanding of the post-1960s development of American political conservatism but also to the contemporary constraints that continue to hamstring U.S. fiscal policymaking. There are times, though, when the reader is left wondering about Graetz's occasional and surprising authorial reticence, about the deep-seated factors behind the antitax movement, and about the historical contingency of just “how the antitax movement hijacked America.” Ultimately, The Power to Destroy is a fascinating and brilliant account of how a fringe social movement to cut taxes moved into the mainstream and transformed modern American political life.

Keywords: history of U.S. conservatism, tax law, fiscal policy, american political development, post-1965 U.S. history, legal history, federal taxation, economic history, political economy, political history

JEL Classification: H20, H71, N42, K34

Suggested Citation:

Mehrotra, Ajay K., The Rise and Entrenchment of the Antitax Movement: A Review Article (May 04, 2025). Political Science Quarterly, qqaf041 (2025), Northwestern Public Law Research Paper No. 25-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5242111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5242111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Lawrence Zelenak
Learning to Love Form 1040: Two Cheers for the Return-Based Mass Income Tax Posted: 2013
Ajay K Mehrotra
Reviving Fiscal Citizenship
Michigan Law Review , volume 113 Posted: 2014
Vanessa S Williamson
Read My Lips: Why Americans Are Proud to Pay Taxes Posted: 2017
Rick Perlstein
Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
483
RANK
618,773
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies