Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Unutilized Tax Losses in Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: November 12, 2024

Abstract

Many tax systems allow unutilized tax losses to be carried forward or back to a different tax basis period or transferred to a different entity in a group of companies (known as group relief). Despite sharing a common tax heritage, the tax systems of Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei now treat the shifting of unutilized tax losses quite differently. This article analyses in detail the differences in tax treatment across these jurisdictions, with a focus on how their loss-shifting mechanisms operate and the safeguards implemented to protect the tax base. For example, both Singapore and Malaysia have a “shareholding test”, while Malaysia places considerable restrictions on the claiming of group relief. Notably, Singapore permits the carrying back of losses, but with such restrictive conditions that there might be little practical impact. The article considers how jurisdictions can balance making the tax system attractive to businesses while safeguarding the tax base.

Keywords: Tax Law, Taxation, Taxation Law, Revenue Law, Income Tax, Singapore Law

JEL Classification: K34, H2, H24, H25

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Navigating Unutilized Tax Losses in Singapore, Malaysia and Brunei (November 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5242349
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies