Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Taxation Agreements and Nexus

19 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: March 03, 2025

Abstract

The concept of nexus is a fundamental principle of taxation law, of which much has been written. Framed in its broadest form, nexus can be understood as “the requirement that a qualifying connection exists between the state exercising its taxing power on the one hand and taxable subject and/or taxable object on the other.” It manifests itself in a myriad of situations spanning the entirety of (international) tax law, appearing in rules governing broad concepts such as source and residence, but also rules applying in the more specific contexts of particular classes of income. Nexus is a fundamental principle in a broad range of sources of law, including domestic law statutes, domestic case law, Double Taxation Agreements (“DTAs”), Customary International Law (“CIL”) and some forms of soft law such as the Commentaries to the Model Conventions. This Report focuses on the concept of nexus in the context of DTAs.4 The way in which nexus manifests itself in the context of DTAs gives us important insights about the concept, as does the interaction between DTAs and other sources of law when it comes to nexus.

Keywords: Taxation Law, International Taxation, Public International Law, Tax Treaties, Nexus

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H25

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Double Taxation Agreements and Nexus (March 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5242934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5242934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Jogarajan identifies the first international treaty expressly concerned with the prevention of the double taxation of income tax as the treaty between the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Prussia (Germany) on 21 June 1899, but notes the existence of tax co-operation agreements preceding that treaty
These justifications have a long history, going back to at least the seminal article of Georg Schanz
FinanzArchiv / Public Finance Analysis , volume 9 , issue 2 Posted: 1892
See Pasquale Pistone , Sam Van Der , Mariya Vlugt , Serafimova
Public International Law and Tax Law: A Fair and Equitable Nexus in International Taxation
) World Tax Journal , volume 16 , issue 4 Posted: 2004
Pistone
21; Hattingh and Hongler (n 5), 20; and Kokott , p. 110 - 111
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
524,740
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Foreign Relations & Policy Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies