Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cryptocurrency Taxation: An Overview of Regulatory Frameworks in Singapore, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan

3 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Eлизавета Онищук

Moscow State University of International Relations (MGIMO University)

Date Written: February 01, 2025

Abstract

This article provides an overview of the tax regulations governing cryptocurrency transactions in Singapore, the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the Republic of Uzbekistan. It examines the specific nuances of taxing income derived from cryptocurrency operations, mining activities, and the application of valueadded tax (VAT) and other mandatory payments in each jurisdiction. Particular attention is given to special tax regimes designed to stimulate the development of the cryptocurrency industry.

Keywords: Cryptocurrencies, Taxation, Income Tax, Corporate Tax, VAT, Mining, Tax Regulation, Regulatory Sandbox

Suggested Citation:

Онищук, Eлизавета, Cryptocurrency Taxation: An Overview of Regulatory Frameworks in Singapore, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan (February 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5244925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5244925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
915,095
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies