Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax evasion: The role of tricksters in folklore

50 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Chrysovalantis Gaganis

University of Crete - Faculty of Social Sciences - Department of Economics

Fotios Pasiouras

MBS School of Business

Menelaos Tasiou

University of Surrey - Surrey Business School

Eleftherios Vlamakis

University of Crete - Department of Economics

Date Written: May 07, 2025

Abstract

The act of not paying the appropriate taxes due, known as tax evasion, is both unethical and illegal. Using an international firm-level survey sample, our study examines whether and how folklore, an ancient societal characteristic, is associated with tax evasion. Focusing on tricksters, a typical figure in oral traditions, we find a negative association between the frequency with which tricksters are punished for their antisocial behaviour in folktales around the world and corporate tax evasion. Our findings are robust to the use of various firm-and country-level control variables, different datasets, and the use of alternative estimation techniques, including instrumental variables regression. Finally, we find evidence of complementarity effects between formal and informal institutions, as our results show that the effect of folklore on tax evasion is amplified in the case of countries with better perceptions about the overall quality of governance and formal institutions. Our findings highlight the enduring influence of societal narratives on economic behaviour and the interaction between informal and formal institutional factors in shaping compliance outcomes.

Keywords: Folklore, Tax evasion, Tricksters

Declaration of Interest

nothing to declare

Ethics Approval

nothing to declare

Funder Statement

no funder

JEL Classification: H26, Z19

Suggested Citation:

Gaganis, Chrysovalantis and Pasiouras, Fotios and Tasiou, Menelaos and Vlamakis, Eleftherios, Tax evasion: The role of tricksters in folklore (May 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies