Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
 LEVERAGING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO PROMOTE INTERNATIONAL TAX COMPLIANCE

Journal of Advanced Public International Law

15 Pages Posted: 8 May 2025

Philips Adekemi

University of Florida

Date Written: March 11, 2024

Abstract

The transformative potential of artificial intelligence (AI) in international tax compliance has been mentioned in much literature. AI has been described as the ultimate solution to the effective analysis of data and tax patterns, with immense potential to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of international tax compliance processes. The trickle-down effects on tax authorities to prioritize high-risk areas and taxpayers are also mentioned in the literature. These benefits further accumulate with the early detection and mitigation of tax-related risks. Some studies have also mentioned the potential benefits of AI in tax compliance for taxpayers. According to these studies, AI can provide tailored recommendations that enhance their understanding of their tax obligations. Thus, reducing incidents of non-compliance. This paper, similar to other studies, highlights the benefits of AI in tax compliance. However, it also underscores the need to address ethical and regulatory considerations, such as transparency, fairness, and privacy. The paper also advocates for the development of international guidelines, the adoption of a risk-based approach, consistent monitoring, effective collaboration among tax agencies, and data standardization to maximize the benefits of AI in international tax compliance. This paper concludes that the responsible and transparent use of AI can revolutionize international tax administration. It also suggests that the responsible and transparent use of AI can promote trust in international tax processes and lead to more efficient and effective international compliance efforts.

Suggested Citation:

Adekemi, Philips,  LEVERAGING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO PROMOTE INTERNATIONAL TAX COMPLIANCE (March 11, 2024). Journal of Advanced Public International Law, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
O Brien , Cody O' Brien
How Artificial Intelligence Will Affect the Practice of Law? Posted: 2019
A B Alarie , Niblett , Yoon
How Artificial Intelligence Will Affect the Practice of Law
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2017
M S Biresaw , U S A
The Impacts of Artificial Intelligence on Research in the Legal Profession' (2022)
International Journal of Law and Society , volume 53
Michael Legg , Felicity Bell
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE and the LEGAL PROFESSION: BECOMING the AI-ENHANCED LAWYER Law Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
697,815
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies