Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Officials' Stock Holdings and Corporate Tax Outcomes

49 Pages Posted: 8 May 2025 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Michael Mayberry

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Eashwar Nagaraj

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Scott G. Rane

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: May 06, 2025

Abstract

We investigate the information content of personal stock trades by IRS officials. We collect transaction-level data on over five thousand IRS officials' personal investments and document substantial trading activity in individual stocks by officials across IRS departments. We find that IRS officials' trades, predominantly their purchases, generate positive abnormal returns on average, consistent with officials' information being not yet fully impounded into stock price. Next, we examine whether stock trades by these officials are associated with the firm's future tax enforcement outcomes. For a given firm, we find IRS officials' purchases are associated with subsequent decreases in tax reserves and specifically lapses in the statute of limitations. We also find that IRS officials' sales are associated with subsequent unfavorable tax settlements. These findings suggest that IRS officials possess, and trade on, material tax-related information and that these trades are associated with future tax enforcement outcomes for firms.

Keywords: tax audit, IRS, insider trading, informed trading, information asymmetry, tax uncertainty, tax, regulation, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G38, H25, L14, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mayberry, Michael and Nagaraj, Eashwar and Rane, Scott G., IRS Officials' Stock Holdings and Corporate Tax Outcomes (May 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5245652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5245652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D M Armstrong , S Glaeser , J L Hoopes
Measuring Firm Exposure to Government Agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2025-05-09
R Ballhaus , B Mullins , C Day , J West , J Palazzolo , J V Grimaldi
Federal Officials Trade Stock in Companies Their Agencies Oversee
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2022-10-11
W Belmont , B Sacerdote , R Sehgal , I Van Hoek
Do Senators and House Members Beat the Stock Market? Evidence from the STOCK Act
Journal of Public Economics , volume 207 Posted: 2022-03-01
B K Billings , W L Buslepp
Strategic Management Guidance and Insider Trading Activities
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 104 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,880
RANK
66,006
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies