Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
THE SERVICE'S OVERGENEROUS TAX TREATMENT OF CROWDFUNDING

Cardozo Law Review de novo 2025

https://cardozolawreview.com/the-services-overgenerous-tax-treatment-of-crowdfunding/

11 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Jeffrey H. Kahn

Harry M. Walborsky Professor, Florida State University College of Law; Associate Dean, Business Program

Date Written: April 15, 2025

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Service released a fact sheet that defines crowdfunding as a method to raise money on websites by soliciting contributions from a large number of people. This article considers how crowdfunding is treated for tax purposes and argues that, contrary to the fact sheet’s determination, all donations collected by commercial websites should be income to the recipient.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Crowdfunding, Kickstarter, GoFundMe, Gifts

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Jeffrey H., THE SERVICE'S OVERGENEROUS TAX TREATMENT OF CROWDFUNDING (April 15, 2025). Cardozo Law Review de novo 2025
https://cardozolawreview.com/the-services-overgenerous-tax-treatment-of-crowdfunding/
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5249700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5249700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Duberstein V Comm'r
, volume 265 Posted: 1959
Duberstein
, volume 284 , p. 288 - 289
Comm'r V , Lobue
, volume 243 Posted: 1956
H Jeffrey , Kahn
Duberstein, 363 U.S. at 290. 44 "Horizontal equity" is the tax policy principle that taxpayers with similar income should pay similar amounts of tax
The Mirage of Equivalence and the Ethereal Principles of Parallelism and Horizontal Equity , volume 645 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies