Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Completion Portfolios Effective for Managing Concentrated Stock Risk?

The Journal of Beta Investment Strategies, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025 Last revised: 16 Jun 2025

Stanley Krasner

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Joseph Liberman

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Nathan Sosner

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Marcus Stevens

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Date Written: May 12, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the most effective ways to manage the risk of concentrated stock positions. While the completion portfolio approach to hedging the risk of concentrated stock appears conceptually sound, the empirical evidence shows that it offers limited practical risk-reduction benefits. The risk of concentrated holdings is dominated by the stock-specific component, which cannot be hedged with unrelated stocks. We find that simple sector-exclusion completion portfolios are generally ineffective as concentrated stock hedges. Optimized completion portfolios can hedge common-factor risk to a degree, especially when shorting is used. However, their overall impact on forecast risk is small, and on realized risk, negligible. Selling the concentrated position quickly and tax efficiently is the most effective risk-mitigation strategy. Tax-aware strategies, particularly tax-aware long-short strategies, can be highly valuable in this respect. The study concludes that investors and their advisors should temper their expectations about the risk-hedging ability of completion portfolios and prioritize the tax-aware aspect of the strategies to facilitate the tax-efficient liquidation of concentrated holdings.

Keywords: Concentrated Stock Risk, Completion Portfolios, Direct Indexing, Long-Short Strategies, Tax-Aware Strategies JEL Classification: G11

JEL Classification: G11, G51, H24

Suggested Citation:

Krasner, Stanley and Liberman, Joseph and Sosner, Nathan and Stevens, Marcus, Are Completion Portfolios Effective for Managing Concentrated Stock Risk? (May 12, 2025). The Journal of Beta Investment Strategies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5251616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Aked , R Arnott , P Bouchey , T Li , O Shakerina
Tactical and Tax Aware GTAA
The Journal of Portfolio Management , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 23 - 37 Posted: 2019
H Bessembinder
Do Stocks Outperform Treasury Bills?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 129 , issue 3 , p. 440 - 457 Posted: 2018
P Bouchey
The Direct Index Playbook for Wealth Managers
The Journal of Beta Investment Strategies , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 118 - 131 Posted: 2024
P Bouchey , R Fong
Completion Portfolio Management: Using Completion Overlays and Sleeves to Help Enhance Portfolio Flexibility Posted: 2023-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
948
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
RANK
56,333
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies