Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Income and Income Inequality

Journal of Economic Perspectives, volume 39, issue 2 (2025)  [10.1257/jep.20241424]




24 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Conor Clarke

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Wojciech Kopczuk

Columbia University - Graduate School of Arts and Sciences - Department of Economics; Columbia University - School of International & Public Affairs (SIPA); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 12, 2025

Abstract

Income inequality is important, but attempts to measure it arrive at strikingly different conclusions. Why? We use recent disputes over measuring United States income inequality to return to first principles about both the income concept and inequality measurement. We emphasize two broad points. First, no measure of the income distribution is truly comprehensive, or could attempt to be comprehensive without making controversial choices. We document the practical and conceptual problems that the standard ideal—comprehensive Haig-Simons income—raises. Second, much of the controversy in this area turns on the many tradeoffs between starting with individual tax data versus attempting to match more expansive income concepts. Individual tax data reflects only a shrinking subset of a more comprehensive income concept—but it is individual data. Broader alternatives, on the other hand, are harder to allocate to individuals. We document some of the most important and contestable assumptions that allocating national income requires.

Keywords: Inequality, Income, Wealth, Justice, Income Inequality, Distributive Justice, Tax, Income Taxation, Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

Clarke, Conor and Kopczuk, Wojciech, Measuring Income and Income Inequality (May 12, 2025). Journal of Economic Perspectives, volume 39, issue 2 (2025)  [10.1257/jep.20241424],
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Martin Jacob , Wojciech Kopczuk , Kjetil Telle
Accounting for Business Income in Measuring Top Income Shares: Integrated Accrual Approach Using Individual and Firm Data from Norway Posted: 2016
Annette Alstadsaeter , Wojciech Kopczuk , Kjetil Telle
Are Closely-Held Firms Tax Shelters?
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2014
Facundo Alvaredo , François Bourguignon , Francisco Ferreira , Nora Lustig
Inequality Bands: Seventy-Five Years of Measuring Income Inequality in Latin America
World Inequality Lab Posted: 2024
William D Andrews , Charles E Walker , Mark A Bloomfield
The Achilles' Heel of the Comprehensive Income Tax
New Directions in Federal Tax Policy for the 1980s , p. 278 - 280 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
338
RANK
778,997
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies