Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Third-Party Reporting on Tax Compliance: Evidence from Gig Workers

40 Pages Posted: 15 May 2025

Andrew Garin

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Emilie Jackson

Michigan State University

Dmitri Koustas

University of Chicago

Alicia Miller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The rise of platform gig work in recent years has meant more workers have self-employment earnings, which are not subject to tax withholding but generally covered by information reporting on 1099 returns. In 2017, many gig workers suddenly and unexpectedly stopped receiving a 1099 for their work activity, providing an opportunity to study the impact of third-party reporting on tax compliance for gig workers. We first exploit exogenous variation in receiving a 1099 information return using a border-county design in two states where all workers continued to receive a 1099. We find no impact of receiving a 1099 on whether one files a tax return, but find that each dollar reported on a 1099-K increases self-reported profits by 17 cents. We then use the state-level filings to impute the size of the national online platform workforce in 2017 and 2018. We estimate that 770,000 gig workers did not receive information returns due to the change in third-party reporting practices by online platforms and that $560 million in profits went unreported on income tax filings as a result.

Keywords: Tax compliance, third-party reporting, gig economy

Suggested Citation:

Garin, Andrew and Jackson, Emilie and Koustas, Dmitri and Miller, Alicia, The Impact of Third-Party Reporting on Tax Compliance: Evidence from Gig Workers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Katharine Abraham , John Haltiwanger , Kristin Sandusky , James Spletzer
Driving the Gig Economy Posted: 2018
Bibek Adhikari , James Alm , Timothy F Harris
Small business tax compliance under third-party reporting
Journal of Public Economics , volume 203 Posted: 2021
Bibek Adhikari , James Alm , Brett Collins , Michael Sebastiani , Eleanor Wilking
Using a natural experiment in the taxicab industry to analyze the effects of third-party income reporting
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 193 , p. 312 - 333 Posted: 2022
Brett Collins , Andrew Garin , Emilie Jackson , Dmitri Koustas , Mark Payne
Is Gig Work Replacing Traditional Employment? Evidence from Two Decades of Tax Returns Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies