Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"Congress-Proof" International Tax Reforms

Tulane Law Review (forthcoming)

51 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 19 Sep 2025

Noam Noked

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

Reaching multilateral agreements on legal reforms to address transnational problems is a formidable challenge. This task is further complicated by the structure of U.S. policymaking, where Congress may reject or actively undermine international legal standards that were established with the support of the U.S. administration. A recent example of this is the so-called “global tax deal.” The previous U.S. administration played a crucial role in reaching what then-Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen described as a “historic agreement on new international tax rules,” which was endorsed by over 130 countries. This agreement aims to reform the international taxation of large multinational enterprises (Pillar One) and introduce a groundbreaking global minimum tax (Pillar Two). However, since the announcement of the agreement, Congress has been blocking one of these reforms and sought to derail the other. 


Given this reality, how can the international community develop and implement effective international legal standards? Recent international tax reforms have sought to address this challenge with legal design: establishing legal standards that are resilient to Congressional inaction or that would disadvantage U.S. interests if not adopted. This Article analyzes the legal design techniques used to create “Congress-proof” international legal standards, examining six international tax standards and reforms from the past decade as case studies. This analysis demonstrates how variations in legal design affect the adoption and implementation of the relevant standards. For instance, it shows how differences in the legal design of Pillar One and Pillar Two have resulted in the failure of the former and the relative success of the latter.


The Article examines three strategies used in the legal design of the relevant reforms. The first strategy involves establishing a legal standard that the U.S. administration can implement within the existing legal framework, thereby eliminating the need for Congressional action. The second strategy focuses on minimizing the negative consequences of U.S. non-participation by ensuring that Congressional inaction cannot prevent the international rollout of the legal standard or undermine its effectiveness. The third strategy aims to create incentives for the U.S. government and relevant stakeholders to adopt the reform.  The Article evaluates these strategies and their effects, including their impact on the negotiation, adoption, and implementation of international reforms. It also discusses concerns related to extraterritoriality, treaty violations, legitimacy, and retaliatory actions. 



Keywords: International Tax Reforms, U.S. Congress, Legal Design, International Agreements, Global Tax Governance

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Noked, Noam, "Congress-Proof" International Tax Reforms (May 01, 2025). Tulane Law Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
For further discussion on the need for global tax cooperation, see Martin Hearson & Thomas Rixen, The political Science of Global Tax Governance, in RSCH. HANDBOOK ON INT'L TAX
N 218 Posted: 2020
Matti Ylonen
Global Tax Governance, in HANDBOOK ON CRITICAL POL
47 International Monetary Fund, Coordinating Taxation Across Borders Posted: 2022
See Miranda , Stewart
International Institutions in Global Tax Governance
27 J. INT'L ECON. L , volume 618 , p. 618 - 623 Posted: 2025
Diane Ring
Who is Making International Tax Policy: International Organizations as Power Players in a High Stakes World, 33 FORDHAM INT
L L.J , volume 649 , p. 649 - 652 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
849,077
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies