Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tariff Hikes, Importer Costs, and Tariff Avoidance: A Firm-Level Analysis

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-07

52 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Ayse Sule Ozdogan Laurenz

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

I examine the effects of tariff increases on the acquisition costs of importing firms and the relationship between importer cost structure and tariff avoidance. Tariffs aim to increase the financial burden on imports, encouraging buyers to focus on the domestic market. However, this approach is debated, as importers can often alleviate the impact of tariffs by shifting their supply chains to countries that are not subject to tariffs. Employing a difference-indifferences design with ordinary least squares estimation models and a logistic estimation model using Compustat North America and Import Genius Database on firm-level trade information from 2016 to 2020, I find that the acquisition costs of tariff-affected importer firms increase significantly after tariff imposition. Importer-trader firms are more likely to absorb the burden of the tariff increase. Furthermore, through an association analysis, I discover that importers with higher cost structures are more likely to avoid tariffs. These findings are crucial for trade policymakers as they provide valuable insights into the varied effects of tariffs on importer costs and how the cost structures of importers influence the likelihood of avoiding tariffs.

Keywords: Tariff, Tax, Cost, International Trade

JEL Classification: F23, F61, H26

Suggested Citation:

Ozdogan Laurenz, Ayse Sule, Tariff Hikes, Importer Costs, and Tariff Avoidance: A Firm-Level Analysis (May 16, 2025). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5257573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5257573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
References
M Amiti , S Redding , J Weinstein , D E
Who is Paying for the US Tariffs? A Longer-Term Perspective
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2020
M Amiti , S Redding , J Weinstein , D E
The Impact of the 2018 Tariffs on Prices and Welfare
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 187 - 210 Posted: 2019
O Bayar , F Huseynov , S Sardarli
Corporate Governance, Tax Avoidance, and Financial Constraints
Financial Management , p. 651 - 677 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
RANK
627,303
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies