Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of State Income Tax Rates on Recruiting in the NIL Era of Collegiate Athletics

29 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 29 Aug 2025

Jack Badger

Middle Tennessee State University - Department of Accounting

James Chyz

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

The collegiate athletics landscape underwent a significant transformation in 2021, when student-athletes were permitted to be compensated for their name, image, and likeness (NIL). In this study, we examine whether state income tax rates affect collegiate football recruiting outcomes in the NIL era. We find that higher state income tax rates are associated with worse overall recruiting outcomes, specifically, lower overall recruiting class points and fewer top-rated recruits in a university’s recruiting class. Our results suggest that state tax policy currently influences collegiate athletics recruiting and contribute to the literature on how tax policy affects behavior and resource allocation.

Keywords: collegiate athletics, football, NCAA, NIL, name image and likeness, collegiate recruiting, state income taxes

JEL Classification: H71, H20

Suggested Citation:

Badger, Jack and Chyz, James and Gaertner, Fabio B., The Impact of State Income Tax Rates on Recruiting in the NIL Era of Collegiate Athletics (May 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5257493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5257493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D R Agrawal , K Tester
State Taxation of Nonresident Income and the Location of Work
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 447 - 481 Posted: 2024
D O N Arotzki , Y A B Rauner
A Roadmap to NIL and Taxation Posted: 2025
N Bromberg
NCAA to allow players a second transfer without penalty through end of current season , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2023
G A Driessen , S M Sheffrin
Agglomeration, Tax Differentials, and the Mobility of Professional Athletes
Public Finance Review , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 302 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
434
RANK
766,148
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies