Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Use of AI by EU Tax Authorities: Towards a Common Framework of Taxpayer Protection

European Taxation, volume 65, issue 1, 2024[10.59403/1avybfj]

24 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Amedeo Rizzo

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Bocconi University; Stanford Law School

Giorgio Hassan

SDA Bocconi

Date Written: December 02, 2024

Abstract

This paper explores the status and evolution in the framework of taxpayer protection in the digital age. The implementation of AI in tax administration is progressively changing the structure of tax audits, enhancing the need for specific measures to address the legitimacy of such AI systems under the principles of European law. In this paper, we focus on how, due to the progressive automation of tax audits, the framework of data protection law is progressively influencing the area of tax law, by binding tax authorities to comply with the principles and obligations of the GDPR. In this analysis, we put particular emphasis on the provisions of the GDPR concerning automated decision-making, by stressing how the recent developments in the case law of the CJEU could trigger the application of such provisions in the field of AI-enabled tax audits. Building on this hypothesis, we design a two-rule framework of taxpayer protection that is meant to extend the provisions of the GDPR relating to automated decision-making to individual tax proceedings, in a way that does not undermine-but rather intensifies-the standards of taxpayer protection in the field of "automated" tax audits. In our view, this framework could provide guidance to both EU and non-EU countries for promoting the integration of AI in tax audits while preserving the fundamental institutions of taxpayer protection. Table of contents 1. INTRODUCTION .

Keywords: AI, EU, US, Tax Authorities, Tax Audits

Suggested Citation:

Rizzo, Amedeo and Hassan, Giorgio, Addressing the Use of AI by EU Tax Authorities: Towards a Common Framework of Taxpayer Protection (December 02, 2024). European Taxation, volume 65, issue 1, 2024[10.59403/1avybfj], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
R Italy ; Ve
on the contrary, has implemented an algorithmic verification system
Advanced Analytics for Better Tax Administration Posted: 2016-05-13
Tax Administration 3.0: The Digital Transformation of Tax Administration Posted: 2020-12-07
See Bruno , Peeters
Behind the One-Way Mirror: Reviewing the Legality' [2024] 2 EC Tax. Rev, 184. See also Jean Monnet Network on EU Law Enforcement Slipping Through the Cracks, the Carve-outs for AI Tax Enforcement Systems in the EU AI Act by David Hadwick Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
506
RANK
597,018
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies