Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Global Minimum Tax and Intra Western Tax Competition

Berkely Journal of International Law, Volume 44, No. 1 (2026)

51 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025

Rifat Azam

Reichman University - Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliyah - Harry Radziner School of Law

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

This article provides a critical and timely analysis of the Global Minimum Tax (GMT) in the context of intra-Western tax competition, following the recent executive order by President Trump disavowing prior U.S. commitments to the OECD's Global Tax Deal. Initially hailed as a landmark in international cooperation, the GMT reveals deeper geopolitical dynamics, including the persistence of Western dominance and emerging conflicts between the United States and Europe. The article argues that the GMT represents less a triumph of multilateralism and more a strategic maneuver within a fragmented international economic order. It explores the divergent interests of Western powers, with the European Union pursuing strategic autonomy and the United States grappling with domestic legislative gridlock and shifting policy priorities.

Suggested Citation:

Azam, Rifat, The Global Minimum Tax and Intra Western Tax Competition (May 23, 2025). Berkely Journal of International Law, Volume 44, No. 1 (2026), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5266322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5266322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
todays-agreement-of-130countries-to-support-a-global-minimum-tax-for-the-worlds-largest-corporations/ 53 Statement form Secretary of the Treasury Janet L. Yellen on the OECD Inclusive Framework Announcement
THE WHITE HOUSE -BRIEFING ROOM Posted: 2021-07-01
Reuven S Avi-Yonah , Young Ran , ( Christine , ) Kim , Karen Sam
A New Framework for Digital Taxation , volume 63 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
112 Supra note 92
See: Christopher Ahn
Taxing the digital giants: What the OECD Global Tax Deal Means for the U.S
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
173,555
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies