Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Notice 2025-19, 2025-2026 Priority Guidance Plan

207 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: May 17, 2025

Abstract

This lengthy PGP submission to Treasury and the IRS includes recommendations in a number of international tax areas for regulation changes, improvements, and modernization. It includes for a number of areas suggested regulatory language that could be considered.

Much of the submission concerns sourcing and effectively connected income rules. It also covers the existence of unanticipated partnerships among an MNC's group members that conduct joint business activities. Regarding subpart F, it makes suggestions concerning the manufacturing branch rule. Finally, it includes suggestions regarding the manner in which tax treaties should or should not apply to certain hybrid entities and how cost sharing agreements should be administered under Rev Proc 2015-41. It also encourages the application by the IRS of section 482 "commensurate with income" periodic adjustments to appropriate taxpayer profit-shifting structures.

Declaration of Interest

None. I am an adjunct lecturer on taxation topics and have been retired from active practice as a tax accountant for many years. I am not paid by any person or organization for professional services.

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

I had no funding for this work.

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., Notice 2025-19, 2025-2026 Priority Guidance Plan (May 17, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5267840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5267840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
CSAs -The Opposite of Arm
Common Features of CSA-Based Structures: Partnership Status and ECI
Withdraw Reg. section 1.482-7 and Eliminate Cost Sharing Arrangements Eliminate APAs for
Include in APA Terms the Requirement for Taxpayer Annual Preparation of Reg. section 1 , p. 482 - 487
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
428
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies