Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Validating EU Law in Taxes, a Hard Case

21 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025

Ana Paula Dourado

University of Lisbon - Institute for Economic, Financial and Fiscal (IDEFF)

Date Written: October 11, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, I will examine the validity of EU law as interpreted by the Court of Justice, using the example of taxes, specifically income and property taxes. I will claim that, as a matter of principle, EU law as stated by the Court of Justice is autonomous and supreme over Member States’ laws, a source of law on its own right, and that its interpretation and implementation does not a priori exclude direct taxes.

Interpreting and implementing EU law requires assessment of States’ officials behavior by the Court of Justice. States’ officials are the States’ sovereign organs and the other States’ institutions. Thus, the narrative of EU Law validity cannot be conditioned by the Member State under judgment, by its acceptance of the concrete outcome.

However, validity in EU tax law raises even more complex issues than in most EU legal fields, due to the state principle of legality, related to parliamentary representation, and the interaction among various decision-making instances and levels.

I will discuss the relevance of the EU citizens’ voice to the European Parliament and in their Member States parliamentary and presidential elections. I will also discuss the relevance of the critical stance by some or groups of Member States in a reiterated manner in the Court’s judgments for the purposes of validity of EU Law.

I will claim that the EU Member States and the EU citizens’ support of EU Law, as interpreted by the Court, is crucial for the enforcement of the EU project, which relies on the rule of law, liberty, democracy and equality among Member States and their citizens.

Declaration of Interest

The authors have nothing to declare

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve human participants and therefore did not require ethics approval

Funder Statement

This research received no external funding.

Suggested Citation:

Dourado, Ana Paula, Validating EU Law in Taxes, a Hard Case (October 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5278607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5278607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies