Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Cash Holdings and the Agency Costs of Debt

42 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2025

Matthew Erickson

Virginia Tech - Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University, Pamplin College of Business, Department of Business Information Technology, Students

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Linda K. Krull

University of Oregon

Date Written: July 17, 2024

Abstract

We examine the relation between foreign cash holdings and the agency costs of debt. We posit and provide evidence of a positive association. Next, we investigate how recent tax legislation affects this relation. We find a significant decline in the positive relation between foreign cash holdings and the agency costs of debt following the Tax Increase and Prevention Act of 2005 (TIPRA) and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA). We conclude that foreign cash holdings increase the agency costs of debt more than domestic cash holdings and that some actions by lawmakers have resulted in the attenuation of these costs. Our paper adds to the literature investigating the consequences of multinational companies' foreign cash balances and provides insights on the benefits of recent legislative action on providing a more competitive balance to U.S. multinational companies.

Keywords: Foreign Cash, Multinational Corporations, Taxation, Agency Costs, Cost of Debt, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, TCJA

JEL Classification: G32, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Erickson, Matthew and Goldman, Nathan C. and Krull, Linda K., Foreign Cash Holdings and the Agency Costs of Debt (July 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
V Acharya , S Davydenko , I Strebulaev
Cash holdings and credit risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 25 , issue 12 , p. 3572 - 3609 Posted: 2012
H Akamah , O K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 69 Posted: 2018
H Almeida , M Campello , M Weisbach
The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1805 Posted: 2004
Load more
1 Citations
John L. Campbell , Dan S. Dhaliwal , Linda K. Krull , Casey M. Schwab
U.S. multinationals’ foreign cash holdings: an empirical estimate and the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 on the value of foreign cash
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
RANK
812,770
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies