Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Psychological Reactance Theory and Tax Evasion Intentions

Journal of Business Ethics, 0[10.1007/s10551-025-06033-6]

Posted: 3 Jun 2025

Diana Falsetta

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Brian C. Spilker

Brigham Young University

Date Written: June 02, 2025

Abstract

This study experimentally examines how tax administration service inefficiencies in the form of tax return processing delays from paper-filed tax returns indirectly affect taxpayer tax evasion intentions through taxpayers’ psychological reactance to the delay. We further consider whether this indirect effect is different when the taxpayer willingly chooses to paper file their tax return versus when the taxpayer is forced to do so. Consistent with Psychological Reactance Theory (PRT), we find that when taxpayers receive delayed refunds, they experience psychological reactance (e.g., anger and frustration with the tax administration) that increases their tax evasion intentions. Further, we find that the effect of a delayed refund on tax evasion intentions via psychological reactance is stronger for taxpayers who choose to paper file than for those who are forced to do so. Our theory and findings inform academics, policymakers, and practitioners about the importance of tax administration services and potential negative taxpayer responses, which could lead to unethical behavior, resulting in increased tax evasion and lost government revenues. Further, our findings provide new insights about PRT when decision-makers face multiple threats versus a single threat to freedom.

Keywords: Psychological Reactance Theory, Tax Compliance, Tax Evasion, Tax Processing Delays

JEL Classification: H26, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Falsetta, Diana and Spilker, Brian, Psychological Reactance Theory and Tax Evasion Intentions (June 02, 2025). Journal of Business Ethics, 0[10.1007/s10551-025-06033-6], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279515
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies