Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules (GloBE) and Location Choices of Multinational Corporations

33 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2025

Ji Seon Yoo

Kookmin University

Date Written: January 01, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of the Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules (GloBE), also known as the global minimum tax, on the investment costs and location choices of multinational corporations (MNCs). Using a worldwide group-year sample of MNCs, the study first finds that MNCs have made ex ante adjustments in their business strategies that have led to increases in their costs of investment. Next, by analyzing the changes in the actual organization structures of MNCs, this study identifies that MNCs have made real relocation decisions by shifting their affiliates from low-tax-rate countries to high-tax-rate countries. It further finds that proactive relocation is more common among MNCs with high tax-planning effectiveness than among those with lower effectiveness. Overall, these findings suggest that international tax policy has led to organizational restructuring of MNCs and promoted the reallocation of financial resources worldwide.

Keywords: Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules (GloBE), organizational restructuring, costs of investment, effective tax rates, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Yoo, Ji Seon, Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules (GloBE) and Location Choices of Multinational Corporations (January 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5281367 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5281367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
P Demerjian
Calculating efficiency with financial accounting data: Data envelopment analysis for accounting researchers Posted: 2018
M P Devereux , R Griffith
Evaluating tax policy for location decisions
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 10 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2003
S Dyreng , M Hanlon , E Maydew
Long-run corporate tax avoidance
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 82 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies