Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Competition in a Spatial Economy

Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper

121 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2025

David R. Agrawal

University of California, Irvine; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Tidiane Ly

Syracuse University

Raphael Parchet

Università della Svizzera italiana, Institute of Economics (IdEP)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

We incorporate policy competition among governments into a quantitative spatial model. Our new approach quantifies the interdependence of policymaking among a large number of competing jurisdictions, allowing us to fully characterize an endogenous network of potentially millions of bilateral strategic policy linkages. These linkages are summarized by the "policy impact" of each jurisdictionthe extent to which a jurisdiction changing its policy affects policy choices of others. Policy impact is heterogeneous across jurisdictions and the primary driver of the welfare effects of policy competition. We apply our model to a network of 3, 109 U.S. counties competing in local sales taxes and evaluate several centralized interventions aimed at limiting tax competition. We find that (1) tax competition is harmful: federal interventions increase welfare, albeit heterogeneously across places; (2) ignoring endogenous policies from a quantitative spatial model underestimates welfare effects by up to 33%. To explore the underlying mechanisms, we rank counties by the magnitude of their policy impact. We show that interventions targeting high-policy impact jurisdictions raise welfare by six times more than targeting low-tax jurisdictions, the standard focus of minimum tax policies. Although policy impact is endogenous, we document that jurisdiction size acts as a strong proxy. Beyond taxation, our framework for endogenizing policy and analyzing its implications extends to tariffs and trade wars, environmental policy competition, regulatory policies, and spending competition.

Keywords: Quantitative spatial model, Tax competition, Tax havens, Trade, Commodity taxes

JEL Classification: H71, H72, R50, R51

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, David R. and Ly, Tidiane and Parchet, Raphael, Policy Competition in a Spatial Economy (May 01, 2025). Kilts Center at Chicago Booth Marketing Data Center Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D R Agrawal
The tax gradient: Spatial aspects of fiscal competition
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2015
D R Agrawal
Local fiscal competition: An application to sales taxation with multiple federations
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 91 , p. 122 - 138 Posted: 2016
D R Agrawal , W H Hoyt , T Ly
A new approach to evaluating the welfare effects of decentralized policies Posted: 2023
D R Agrawal , W H Hoyt , J D Wilson
Local policy choice: Theory and empirics
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1378 - 1455 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
RANK
246,365
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies