Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Dodd-Frank, Part 2

25 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

john bush

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Paul Kunkel

KPMG, Chicago

Date Written: June 15, 2011

Abstract

One page of the behemoth Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is devoted to tax, but the legislation’s tax implications extend far beyond that page. In this report, the authors discuss the tax aspects of seven parts of the new law: (1) bank capital and liquidity, (2) “living wills,” (3) the Volcker rule, (4) banks as dealers in derivatives, (5) securitization, (6) derivatives, and (7) executive compensation.

This report is published in two parts. The first part, published in Tax Notes on July 11, 2011, provided an introduction and discussed bank capital and liquidity, living wills, the Volcker rule, and banks as dealers in derivatives. This second part will discuss securitization, derivatives, and executive compensation. It will also provide three appendices: (A) Living Wills — Tax Issues Checklist, (B) Index to Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act Having Tax Significance, and (C) Glossary of Terms.

The authors wish to thank Guy Bracuti, Sam Chen, Monica Coakley, Dale Collinson, Angela Jackson, Min-Soo Kim, and Justin Miller for their assistance and contributions. A special thanks for assistance goes to Patrick J. McCarty, the primary staffer on Dodd-Frank.

This report reflects the law as of June 15.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Dodd-Frank Act, Regulatory Compliance, Corporate Tax Law, Securitization, Derivatives, Systemic Risk, U.S. Federal Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva and bush, john and Kunkel, Paul, The Taxation of Dodd-Frank, Part 2 (June 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies