Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The foreign market effect and estimating tax-motivated income shifting

42 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2025 Last revised: 6 Jun 2025

Zero Deng

Oregon State University - Department of Accounting, Finance, and Information Management

Scott G. Rane

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Date Written: May 19, 2025

Abstract

We present evidence that the negative association between foreign profitability and tax ratesconventionally interpreted as income shifting-is appreciably driven by the economics of foreign markets unrelated to international tax planning. To improve income shifting estimates, we propose incorporating country fixed effects in foreign profitability-based tests and/or using domestic profitability-based tests to validate results. We demonstrate that including country fixed effects lowers estimated outbound income shifting from $44.0 million to $29.3 million per U.S. multinational firm annually, representing a 33.4 percent reduction. These recommendations benefit future income shifting research employing profitability-based models.

Keywords: corporate taxation, income shifting, foreign tax rates

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Zero and Rane, Scott G., The foreign market effect and estimating tax-motivated income shifting (May 19, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5282496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5282496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Blouin , L A Robinson
Accounting for the Profits of Multinational Enterprises: Double Counting and Misattribution of Foreign Affiliate Income
Working paper Posted: 2023
C W Chen , B F Hepfer , P J Quinn , R J Wilson
The Effect of Tax-Motivated Income Shifting on Information Asymmetry
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 958 - 1004 Posted: 2018
N X Chen , T Lehmer
Aggressive tax avoiders: US multinationals shifting domestic earnings to zero
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 5 , p. 181 - 206
K A Clausing
The Effect of Profit Shifting on the Corporate Tax Base in the United States and Beyond
National Tax Journal , volume 69 , p. 905 - 934 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
194
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies