Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insurance Derivatives: A Tax Angle

26 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025 Last revised: 27 Jun 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Date Written: January 01, 2012

Abstract

The capital markets and the insurance/re-insurance industry have become increasingly interrelated in recent years. A large amount of this activity is concentrated in the area of catastrophic risk, since a single major catastrophe can result in claims that wipe out an insurer's entire reserves. This convergence was prompted in large part by Hurricane Andrew and similar natural disasters that tested the capacity of the insurance industry and confirmed suspicions that the industry as a whole was inadequately capitalized. To illustrate the potential shortfall, in 1997, estimates of the available capital of the combined U.S. insurance and reinsurance industries amount to roughly 300 billion dollars while the United States has total property measured in the trillions. 1 As a result of significant casualty losses in the early 1990's the cost of reinsurance has increased while some reinsurers have curtailed their business. This increase in cost and decrease in supply has led insurers to seek alternatives to traditional reinsurance to hedge their risks.




Insurance Derivatives: A Tax Angle. 2 J. Tax’n Fin. Products 29, with Ann Singer

Updated and republished Practising Law Institute (2023).

Keywords: Insurance, Reinsurance, Catastrophe, Risk, Futures, Dodd-Frank Act, Equity, Tax Law, Capital Markets, Catastrophic Bonds

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva, Insurance Derivatives: A Tax Angle (January 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Harry Kat
Insurance Derivatives Need More Work for Their Potential to be Realized Posted: 1997-10
Cole Canter , Sandor
Insurance Derivatives: A New Asset Class for the Capital Markets and a New Hedging Tool for the Insurance Industry
Journal of Derivatives Posted: 1996
PCS Catastrophe Insurance Options: A User's Guide Posted: 1995
The following examples have been adapted from Satyajit Das "Insurance Derivatives, Part II: Cat Derivative Structures Posted: 1999-02-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies