Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Section 1256 and Foreign Currency Derivatives

19 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Date Written: January 01, 2012

Abstract

Mark-to-market taxation was considered "a fundamental departure from the concept of income realization in the U.S. tax law" 2 when it was introduced in 1981. Congress was only game to propose the concept because of rampant "straddle" shelters that were undermining the U.S. tax system and commodities derivatives markets. Early in tax history, the Supreme Court articulated the realization principle as a Constitutional limitation on Congress' taxing power. But in 1981, lawmakers makers felt confident imposing mark-to-market on exchange traded futures contracts because of the exchanges' system of variation margin. However, when in 1982 non-exchange foreign currency traders asked to come within the ambit of mark-to-market taxation, Congress acceded to their demands even though this market had no equivalent to variation margin. This opportunistic rather than policy-driven history has spawned a great debate amongst tax practitioners as to the scope of the mark-to-market rule governing foreign currency contracts. Several recent cases have added fuel to the debate.

Keywords: Derivatives, Taxation, Mark-to-market, Straddles, Futures, Forwards, Contracts, Regulation, Compliance, IRS, Section 1256, Dodd-Frank Act, Litigation, Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva, Section 1256 and Foreign Currency Derivatives (January 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5284471 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5284471
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Dodd-Frank Wall , Street Reform , Consumer Protection Act , P L , H R 4173
For further discussion of the various component parts of Dodd-Frank and their potential tax consequences see Viva Hammer and John Bush
TNT July 11, 2011 and Viva Hammer, John Bush and Paul Kunkel
Fed. Reg , volume 57684 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
157
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies