Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Tax Treatment of Derivatives

15 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025 Last revised: 6 Jul 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Date Written: August 01, 2012

Abstract

The US federal income taxation of derivative instruments is determined under numerous tax rules set forth in the US tax code, the regulations thereunder (and supplemented by various forms of published and unpublished guidance from the US tax authorities and by the case law). These tax rules dictate the US federal income taxation of derivative instruments without regard to applicable accounting rules. The tax rules applicable to derivative instruments have developed over time in piecemeal fashion. There are no general principles governing the taxation of derivatives in the United States. Every transaction must be examined in light of these piecemeal rules. Key considerations for issuers and holders of derivative instruments under US tax principles will include the character of income, gain, loss and deduction related to the instrument (ordinary vs. capital) and the timing of recognition of income, gain, loss and deduction. Other issues include the source of the income, gain, loss and deduction, the treatment for foreign tax credit purposes and the treatment for Subpart F purposes. This article will concentrate on the major issues of timing and character. As a general matter, in evaluating the taxation of a particular derivative instrument under the Code, taxpayers must make determinations regarding a number of aspects of the instrument including the nature of the instrument (e.g. over-the-counter or exchange-traded, option, future, forward or swap), the intended use of the instrument (e.g. speculative or business hedge), the nature of the taxpayer (dealer, trader, or investor, business or individual), whether the transaction takes place within or outside the United States, and whether the counterparty is a US or non-US person. In addition, taxpayers must consider the applicability of numerous anti-abuse rules in the Code that apply to certain transactions involving derivative instruments (e.g. the so-called straddle rules, the constructive sale rules of section 1259).



United States-Tax Treatment of Derivatives, 14 Derivatives and Fin. Instruments 33 (2012).

Keywords: Dodd-Frank Act, Derivatives, Regulation, Swaps, Reform, Markets, Risk, Governance, Capital

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva, U.S. Tax Treatment of Derivatives (August 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5285804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5285804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
512
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies