Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reward Taxation, Reward Type, and Employee Effort

The Accounting Review, 2025[10.2308/TAR-2023-0450]

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5288523

Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Aishwarrya Deore

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Adam Presslee

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Joanna Shaw

Central Michigan University - School of Accounting

Date Written: May 01, 2025

Abstract

Performance-contingent cash and tangible rewards are commonly used to motivate employees, and the taxation of such rewards is unavoidable. We use two experiments to examine how the effect of reward taxation on employee effort varies by reward type. In Experiment 1, we find reward taxation decreases positive affect, increases negative affect, and decreases reward attractiveness for employees when rewards are tangible but not when rewards are cash. In Experiment 2, we find reward taxation reduces employee effort when rewards are tangible but not when rewards are cash. Collectively, this evidence advances knowledge at the intersection of tax and management accounting by explaining why reward type alters the effect of reward taxation on employee effort. Moreover, our experimental results inform managers of a potential downside to using tangible rewards to motivate employees.

Keywords: Affect, Effort, Reward attractiveness, Reward taxation, Tangible rewards

Declaration of Interest

All of the authors of this paper declare no conflicts of interest.

Ethics Approval

We received office of research ethics approval to conduct all of our experiments, including those in our supplemental data section.

Funder Statement

We are grateful to the CPA Ontario’s Centre for Sustainability Reporting and Performance Management for funding this research.

JEL Classification: J41, M11, M52, M55

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Tim and Deore, Aishwarrya and Presslee, Adam and Shaw, Joanna, Reward Taxation, Reward Type, and Employee Effort (May 01, 2025). The Accounting Review, 2025[10.2308/TAR-2023-0450], Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 5288523, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5288523
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies