Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Profits to Paperwork: Multinationals and the Cost of Transfer Pricing Regulation

56 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Johannes Scheuerer

Norwegian University of Life Sciences

Julie Brun Bjørkheim

Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU)

Abstract

How costly is transfer pricing (TP) regulation for firms? Drawing on administrative tax return and trade data linked with employment records, we estimate how multinational enterprises (MNEs) in Norway responded to an increase in TP documentation requirements. We analyze the monetary amount that MNEs spent on tax advisory services - both on external consultants and in-house lawyers and accountants - after the reform. Difference-in-differences event study designs show that the regulation significantly raised tax payments, reported profits, and spending on tax advisors. This includes a 25% increase in expenditures on external consultants and a 50% increase in expenditures on in-house advisors. Smaller MNEs bear a disproportionately large compliance- and administrative burden, raising important considerations for the design and implementation of anti-tax avoidance measures.

Keywords: F23, H25, H26, J30, M48

Suggested Citation:

Scheuerer, Johannes and Bjørkheim, Julie Brun, From Profits to Paperwork: Multinationals and the Cost of Transfer Pricing Regulation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5293343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5293343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R S Avi-Yonah
Between formulary apportionment and the oecd guidelines: a proposal for reconciliation
World Tax J Posted: 2010
A Baker , B Callaway , S Cunningham , A Goodman-Bacon , P H Sant'anna
Difference-in-differences designs: A practitioner's guide Posted: 2025
J M Barrios , J Gallemore
Tax planning knowledge diffusion via the labor market
Management Science , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 1194 - 1215 Posted: 2024
M Battaglini , L Guiso , C Lacava , E Patacchini
Tax professionals: Tax-evasion facilitators or information hubs? Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies