Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Skatteforvaltningen (Danish Customs and Tax Administration) v Solo Capital Partners LLP and SKAT Tax Refund Scheme Litigation: convergent views on Dicey’s Revenue Rule from the UK and US courts

(2025) 2 British Tax Review 209

14 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Emer Hunt

Sutherland School of Law, University College Dublin

Date Written: March 18, 2025

Abstract

Consideration of judgments of the UK Supreme Court and the US Southern District of New York of Dicey's Rule.  The question was whether the Danish tax authority, Skatteforvaltingen (SKAT), could pursue the defendants for fraud in civil courts where the defendants argued that Dicey's Rule prevented enforcement of the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions.

Keywords: Dicey, Revenue Rule, Retrospective taxation, Cum-Ex dividend, Fraud, Enforcement, Recognition of foreign tax laws

Suggested Citation:

Hunt, Emer, Skatteforvaltningen (Danish Customs and Tax Administration) v Solo Capital Partners LLP and SKAT Tax Refund Scheme Litigation: convergent views on Dicey’s Revenue Rule from the UK and US courts (March 18, 2025). (2025) 2 British Tax Review 209, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5297334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5297334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies