Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indirect Tax Impacts of Transfer Pricing Adjustments: EU and US Approaches When the Price Evolves to Make it “Right”

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 156-161

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Henri Bitar

Independent

Amanda Z. Quenette

Independent

Abstract

How do you handle the indirect tax (VAT/sales tax) impact of year-end transfer pricing profit adjustments between related members of a multinational group? This is, by definition, a worldwide question, since such groups operate across borders. Existing approaches (if any) vary across jurisdictions. The European Union and the United States are both grappling with this subject. Three key cases entailing the VAT consequences of such adjustments are currently before the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Likewise, in various states in the United States, a growing number of cases reveal potential sales/use tax liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments. While awaiting the pending CJEU decisions, in this article, the authors explore, from a comparative perspective, how two fundamentally different systems are trying to address the same problem.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/hbt0gw

Keywords: VAT, transfer pricing, ECJ case law, indirect tax

Suggested Citation:

Bitar, Henri and Quenette, Amanda Z., Indirect Tax Impacts of Transfer Pricing Adjustments: EU and US Approaches When the Price Evolves to Make it “Right”. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 156-161, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/hbt0gw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies