Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the Foreign Tax Credit, Subpart F, and GILTI in Light of Pillar Two

Akron Law Review, Volume 58, Issue 1, pp. 1-38

39 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Jonathan Grossberg

Thomson Reuters

Genevieve Tokic

Northwestern law

Andrew Duxbury

James Madison University

Date Written: June 18, 2025

Abstract

The foreign tax credit has been a cornerstone of the United States international tax system since as early as 1919. However, global commerce and the international tax landscape have both shifted dramatically in the century since then. In particular, the last few decades have seen significant shifts in the international economy with the rise of electronic commerce and tech giants such as Google and Apple. At the same time, the current global tax deal known as the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework, Pillars One and Two, represents challenges and opportunities for taxpayers and governments. Recent estimates suggest that the United States will lose significant tax revenue if changes are not made to its domestic tax rules, including the foreign tax credit rules, if other countries implement Pillar Two and the United States does not. As of this writing, the United States has shown little political will to implement either Pillars One or Two, but dozens of countries passed legislation implementing the Pillar Two global minimum tax as early as 2024 and 2025, and many more are poised to do so. This Article analyzes the foreign tax credit, its historical development, and current controversies. The Article begins with an overview of the foreign tax credit, explaining its purpose and importance in the United States international tax policy. Next, the Article examines the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), including the GILTI rules, on the foreign tax credit. It also discusses the implications of the enactment of the GloBE rules (Pillar One and Pillar Two) under the OECD’s BEPS 2.0 Framework for U.S. tax policy and the foreign tax credit. The Article then delves into the definition of an income tax for purposes of the foreign tax credit, including the history of the definition and recent changes in the foreign tax credit regulations promulgated in 2022. After exploring the implications of recent policy and the history of the foreign tax credit, the Article presents an argument for the “leveling up” approach, highlighting the strengths and possible challenges of such an approach and implications for U.S. international tax policy.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, international tax, public economics

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Grossberg, Jonathan and Tokic, Genevieve and Duxbury, Andrew, Reforming the Foreign Tax Credit, Subpart F, and GILTI in Light of Pillar Two (June 18, 2025). Akron Law Review, Volume 58, Issue 1, pp. 1-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5310130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
462
RANK
584,242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies