Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Warehouses in the VAT System of the European Union

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 11-18

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Aniko Emese Boros

Independent

Abstract

Warehouses are unavoidable parts of global trade. From a taxation point of view, the best-known are customs warehouses. However, the role of warehouses is also significant in the European Union’s VAT system. The VAT warehousing procedure can result in several advantages for businesses; nevertheless, its application requires particular attention since the rules differ from Member State to Member State. In this article, the author gives an overview of different types of warehouses mentioned by the VAT Directive and analyses the options and obligations regarding VAT warehousing and their application in Hungary and Germany. Furthermore, through practical examples, she illustrates potential benefits that might be obtained from the application of a VAT warehouse.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1r8abdv

Keywords: VAT, warehouse, supply (VAT), ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Boros, Aniko Emese, Warehouses in the VAT System of the European Union. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 11-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1r8abdv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
42
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies