Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the Commissionaire Fiction in EU VAT Law: Cause, Effect and the Role of Identical Supplies

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 269-271

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Ad van Doesum

Independent

Abstract

The author in this article examines the existing differing views on the application of the commissionaire fiction under EU VAT law, specifically whether identical supplies are a cause or effect of the fiction. The author argues that identical supplies should be seen as a consequence of applying the commissionaire fiction, not a condition for it, and emphasizes that the commissionaire fiction should apply regardless of any additional elements added by the commissionaire.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2tj44sn

Keywords: VAT, supply (VAT), GST, VAT Directive

Suggested Citation:

Doesum, Ad van, Revisiting the Commissionaire Fiction in EU VAT Law: Cause, Effect and the Role of Identical Supplies. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 269-271, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2tj44sn
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
46
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies