Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Decade of VAT Reforms in Honduras: A Legislative Fixation on Exemptions

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 143-146

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Roberto Ramos Obando

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author examines the evolution of a decade (2013-2023) of VAT reforms in Honduras, focusing on legislative tendencies towards increasing VAT exemptions. This trend is analysed in contrast to the country’s considerable tax expenditures, suggesting a lack of strategic coherence in VAT reform efforts. He also identifies gaps in the VAT system, including the absence of comprehensive regulations for the digital economy, the need for an electronic invoicing framework and inadequate definitions regarding the taxation of services and intangible goods, as well as the issue of tax compliance among businesses in the informal economy, proposing a re-evaluation of the simplified tax regime.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2f52j1s

Keywords: VAT, tax reform, VAT exemption, digital economy, electronic invoicing, services, intangibles, tax compliance, shadow economy

Suggested Citation:

Ramos Obando, Roberto, A Decade of VAT Reforms in Honduras: A Legislative Fixation on Exemptions. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 143-146, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2f52j1s
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies