Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Right to Deduct: Is the Right Absolute?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 220-224

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Stephen Dale

Independent

Abstract

The author, in this article, focuses on the EU VAT system and reflects upon a number of recent court cases, to try and determine to what extent the right to deduct VAT is “an absolute right” and the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union in reiterating the fundamental principle of the neutrality of the EU VAT system by ensuring the deduction in full of eligible input VAT, as regards businesses. Whilst the focus of this article is on the EU VAT system, inevitably the principles discussed, and their application, will pertain to any country operating a VAT system similar to the European Union’s.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2vfrtsa

Keywords: VAT, EU tax law, deductions, substance over form, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Dale, Stephen, Right to Deduct: Is the Right Absolute?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 220-224, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2vfrtsa
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
44
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies