Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Right to Deduct VAT on Company Cars: The French Standstill Clause Tested by the QM Case

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 225-228

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Guy de Cordes

Independent

Abstract

The Court of Justice of the European Union decision in the QM case bears many consequences for companies putting cars at the disposal of their employees or management. In this article, the author investigates whether the definition of the concept of renting provided by the Court in this decision is likely to call into question the right from which France benefits under a standstill clause to exclude the deduction of VAT on company cars.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2qyepkb

Keywords: VAT, leasing, deductions, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Cordes, Guy de, Right to Deduct VAT on Company Cars: The French Standstill Clause Tested by the QM Case. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 225-228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2qyepkb
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
40
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies