Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
2B or Not 2B?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 213-219

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Raymond Feen

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author explains that suppliers must collect essential information to distinguish if a supply of goods is a B2B or B2C transaction to treat it correctly for VAT purposes. When the supplier depends on information (not) provided by the customer, it is sometimes difficult to make the distinction between a B2B or B2C supply. In fact, other information, such as the nature of the goods or volumes sold, can help in making this distinction.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3gadk5c

Keywords: VAT, supply (VAT), one-stop shop, ViDA Proposal

Suggested Citation:

Feen, Raymond, 2B or Not 2B?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 213-219, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3gadk5c
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
42
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies