Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New EU VAT Special Scheme for Small Enterprises as of 1 January 2025

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 203-209

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Fernando Matesanz

Independent

Abstract

The special VAT scheme for small enterprises was introduced in the European Union in 1977. Precisely for this reason, a review and update are necessary. The main change to be introduced in 2025 is the possibility of applying the VAT exemption, under certain circumstances, to cross-border transactions. While it sounds like a good initiative, putting such an exemption into practice can be complicated. With regard to some of the formal obligations of the special scheme, while they appear to be a simplification, they may not be so in practice. In addition, SMEs will have to keep an exhaustive control of their volume of operations in order not to be suddenly excluded from the scheme. This situation would imply significant complications for them. In this article, the author explains the main intricacies of the new VAT special scheme for SMEs.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/22cm2d8



Keywords: VAT, SME, VAT exemption, VAT Directive

Suggested Citation:

Matesanz, Fernando, The New EU VAT Special Scheme for Small Enterprises as of 1 January 2025. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 203-209, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/22cm2d8
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies