Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the VAT Landscape: Unwrapping the Complexities of Gifts in Deco Proteste – Editores

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 54-57

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Gorka Echevarría Zubeldia

Independent

Abstract

In the case of Deco Proteste – Editores, the ECJ has ruled that a low-value gift, such as an inexpensive tablet or smartphone, provided with a magazine subscription, should be considered part of a single supply. In this context, the magazine subscription is deemed to be the main service, while the gift of the device becomes ancillary to that delivery. In this article, the author analyses this judgment, which in his opinion narrows the application of deemed supplies of goods in the context of promotional activities with gifts.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/10ptds6

Keywords: VAT, ECJ case law, supply (VAT)

Suggested Citation:

Echevarría Zubeldia, Gorka, Navigating the VAT Landscape: Unwrapping the Complexities of Gifts in Deco Proteste – Editores. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 54-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310956 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/10ptds6
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies