Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Strict Test for Economic Reality: The Concept of VAT Supply in Airtours

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 27-31

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Vincent Ooi

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author discusses the UK Supreme Court decision in the Airtours case and the two-step test done by Judge Lord Neuberger focusing on identifying a contractual obligation to make a supply to the payor and only departing from this requirement if it would be in accordance with “economic reality”. The author submits that contract law can serve as a starting point, but that the focus on the existence of a contractual obligation in Airtours makes the test excessively restrictive. In the author’s view, “economic reality” in a multiple-party situation should not require the taxable person to prove “artificiality” or “sham”; and contract law and the contractual terms should not serve as a “strait-jacket” for VAT law.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2k61ygh

Keywords: VAT, supply (VAT), case law

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, A Strict Test for Economic Reality: The Concept of VAT Supply in Airtours. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 1, Pages 27-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2k61ygh
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
25
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies