Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Novel Conceptual Tax Regulatory Framework for Crypto Tokens

58 Akron L. Rev. 105 (2025)

45 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Lior Zaks

Hebrew University Jerusalem

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

This article challenges the informal and uncoordinated attempts by governments worldwide to hinder technological innovations that could potentially disrupt established monetary systems and undermine the significance of banks, stock exchanges, and financial institutions. The authors argue that the outcome, which effectively sacrifices governments' ability to tax crypto capital appreciation, impedes the widespread adoption of decentralized tokens and is more detrimental than beneficial. Instead of applying outdated tax rules developed a century ago, the article proposes the development of a new regulatory tax framework that takes into account the unique characteristics of decentralized virtual tokens. These characteristics include their pseudo-anonymity, tradability, liquidity for certain tokens, minimal administrative costs, decentralized nature, government non-intervention, high price volatility, and virtual nature.

The article also criticizes the favorable "realization principle" granted by many tax authorities worldwide, deeming it unjustified and unnecessary. It argues that such a tax deferral suppresses the daily use of tokens, discouraging owners from exchanging or disposing of them as a means of payment. The article suggests that governments may be using these measures to protect their fiat currencies and invest in the development of their own digital currencies. However, it asserts that blockchain technology and crypto tokens do not jeopardize nationalism, and governments should welcome them instead of resisting them, as resistance would be futile and against their own interests.

To address these issues, the article proposes taxing the capital appreciation of crypto tokens, regardless of whether it has been realized or not, using a formulaic tax regime based on a risk-free interest rate and the investment in the token. Additionally, the article discusses income tax considerations related to the creation, disposal, and exchange of digital tokens, suggesting a revision of the existing tax regulatory framework to better align with the unique characteristics of crypto tokens and the principles underlying good tax policy.

Keywords: Tax, Crypto Tokens, Digital Assets, Token Classification, Cryptocurrency Regulation, Tokenomics, Tax Policy, Realization Principle, Virtual Currencies, Security Tokens, Utility Tokens, Stablecoins, International Tax Coordination

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir and Narotzki, Doron and Zaks, Lior, Developing a Novel Conceptual Tax Regulatory Framework for Crypto Tokens (July 01, 2024). 58 Akron L. Rev. 105 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5310164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
778,997
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies