Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT and Directors’ Fees: Can Directors Who are Individuals Be Considered Taxable Persons?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 181-188

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Carlos Bertão da Silva

Independent

Abstract

In the aftermath of the ECJ’s decision in the TP (C-288/22) case, the author of this article argues that directors who are private persons can be taxable persons for VAT purposes. The author argues that this idea is a solution in line with the broadness inherent in the concept of taxable person and that directors can fulfil the requirements of “any person”, “economic activity” and of acting “independently”. In addition, the author stresses that depriving an individual of such a status may equate to hindering legal neutrality (or at least the principle of equal treatment), as well as affecting system neutrality. Furthermore, this article reveals the alignment of this position with economic reality. Lastly, it will signal some of the undesirable consequences of negating the taxable person status: from non-taxation and creation of opportunities for tax avoidance, to tax non-neutrality.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/88pr4y

Keywords: VAT, ECJ case law, director, taxable person, equal treatment

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Carlos Bertão da, VAT and Directors’ Fees: Can Directors Who are Individuals Be Considered Taxable Persons?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 181-188, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/88pr4y
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
59
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies