Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GST Rate Structure and Exemptions in India: Comments from a Global Perspective

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 174-180

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Robert F. van Brederode

Independent

Abstract

Many countries, including India, apply a multi-rate VAT system and exemptions. The author in this article compares the rationale for a single VAT rate with the justifications generally given for applying multiple rates and exemptions. He focuses on India and evaluates the main justification for multiple rates and exemptions in its GST system, namely combating regressivity. It is argued that relief for the burden the GST particularly imposed on the lowest income groups can be provided more effectively than through reduced rates and exemption by incorporating into the GST system a rebate for GST paid up to the poverty level.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1k9cqr7

Keywords: VAT, GST, equal treatment, VAT rate

Suggested Citation:

Brederode, Robert F. van, GST Rate Structure and Exemptions in India: Comments from a Global Perspective. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 4, Pages 174-180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1k9cqr7
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies