Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distribution Reimagined: Determining a Policy's Ultimate Financing

Harvard Journal on Legislation (Forthcoming Winter 2026)

57 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

David Kamin

New York University School of Law

Date Written: June 17, 2025

Abstract

Policymakers are considering enacting either a new spending program or a tax cut. Who pays for the policy? The answer to that question is central to understanding the consequences. Yet, it is a question which, for the most part, policy analysts and scholars have left under-explored and often answered incorrectly or at least incompletely. Analysts and scholars have approached the issue in a variety of ways including simply believing what policymakers say is the financing in a given piece of legislation, assuming the financing is “distributionally neutral,” or assuming the financing comes from the income tax. These approaches are wrong and fail to capture the ultimate financing. This article suggests an alternative: causal analysis rooted in the political economy of the government. It is distribution reimagined. This article begins to explore what it means to analyze financing as a causal matter. Importantly, there will be no certainty in this endeavor—it is necessarily probabilistic and should take into account the inconsistency of policymakers over time. 

The approach can fundamentally change our understanding of the distribution of policy. Policies that seem more progressive may be exactly the opposite when the ultimate financing is properly considered. And, it can lead to a re-evaluation of the wisdom of policy. Given the political economy of the United States, new benefits could be financed to a significant degree by those with lower incomes, despite what policymakers may say at the time. If policymakers continue to be averse to the types of financing sources that reduce this risk, it suggests greater reason to keep fiscal benefits targeted on those with greater need. In the end, irrespective of one’s policy preferences, this type of causal analysis to determine ultimate financing is critical to understanding the effects and wisdom of fiscal policies.

Keywords: tax, spending, distribution, public finance, financing

JEL Classification: H20, H22, H23

Suggested Citation:

Kamin, David, Distribution Reimagined: Determining a Policy's Ultimate Financing (June 17, 2025). Harvard Journal on Legislation (Forthcoming Winter 2026), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310263 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5310263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
E G See , Urban-Brookings Tax , Policy Ctr
Distributional Analysis of the Conference Agreement for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Posted: 2017-12-18
Huaqun Li , Kyle Pomerleau
The Distributional Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act over the Next Decade, Fiscal Fact No. 596 (Tax Foundation Posted: 2018-06
Model Estimate T24-0025 -Make Certain Provisions in the 2017 Tax Act Permanent, by ECI Percentile
Tax Policy Center Posted: 2024
For a description of the policies enacted in the Inflation Reduction Act and compared to those initially in the broader Build Back Better legislation, see David Leonhardt, What's in the Democrats' Climate and Health Bill, N.Y
TIMES Posted: 2022-08-13
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
455
RANK
692,613
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies