Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Brand-New Italian VAT Decree: Italy is Looking Forward to a Closer Harmonization with EU VAT Principles

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 273-277

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Maurizio Bancalari

Independent

Marzia Manica

Independent

Abstract

On 16 March 2023, the Italian government was delegated to perform a substantial revision of the Italian VAT Decree by 29 August 2025 and a formal reorganization by 31 December 2025. The revision is aimed at making the Italian VAT Decree fully harmonized with European VAT principles in light of the criteria provided by the Court of Justice of the European Union, while the reorganization is aimed at granting more efficient accessibility to the Italian VAT legislation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/37avyen

Keywords: VAT, VAT deduction, reorganization, VAT rate, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Bancalari, Maurizio and Manica, Marzia, A Brand-New Italian VAT Decree: Italy is Looking Forward to a Closer Harmonization with EU VAT Principles. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 273-277, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/37avyen
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies