Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a Fixed Establishment Have an Impact on the Place of Taxation of Goods?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 242-247

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Nicola Galleani d'Agliano

Independent

Abstract

In this article the author analyses the relationship between a fixed establishment (FE) and the place where the supply of goods is deemed to be located. In particular, he explores the relationship that exists between the FE and the parent company with regard to intra-Community supplies of tangible goods and addresses the question as to whether intervention by the FE in concluding the transaction in the Member State of destination of the goods results in the requalification of the supply as a domestic transaction.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1aghcq1

Keywords: VAT, fixed establishment, supply (VAT)

Suggested Citation:

Galleani d'Agliano, Nicola, Does a Fixed Establishment Have an Impact on the Place of Taxation of Goods?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 242-247, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1aghcq1
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
34
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies