Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Financial Services Under Australia's GST

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 65-72

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Kevin O'Rourke

Independent

Abstract

The author considers that the assumption that financial services are too difficult to tax under a GST is flawed. When the GST was introduced in Australia, that flawed assumption led to the exempting (input taxing) of financial services, which comes at a cost of almost AUD 6 billion per annum to the Australian revenue base. In this article, the author explains that an addition method of taxation would be effective in fully taxing financial services under Australia’s GST, and also for other jurisdictions. This method has many advantages and few disadvantages relative to the cash flow methods of taxation, and is the superior method for fully taxing financial services.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2s2xwb2

Keywords: VAT, financial services, GST, cash flow tax

Suggested Citation:

O'Rourke, Kevin, Taxing Financial Services Under Australia's GST. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 65-72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2s2xwb2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies