Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EU “Distance Sales of Goods Imported” and Customs Duties: Mind the “Link”

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 131-142

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Sergio Messina

Independent

Abstract

The current legal framework of the European Union encompasses a link between the “importation of goods” and customs duties, which has several implications for VAT. In this article, the author presents an initial assessment of the EU Commission’s proposal for the reform of the Union Customs Code in light of the aforementioned link and its VAT implications. The author concludes that the proposal does not affect the existing link between VAT on “importation of goods” and customs duties, but instead adds another link, this time between customs duties and the “distance sales of goods imported”. Similar to the existing link, the proposed connection also presents several VAT implications.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2d6vj6q

Keywords: VAT, customs duty, import, tax reform, tax base, tax liability, Union Customs Code

Suggested Citation:

Messina, Sergio, EU “Distance Sales of Goods Imported” and Customs Duties: Mind the “Link”. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 3, Pages 131-142, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2d6vj6q
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies