Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT on Imported Services in Africa: Why Consumption and Reverse Charge Concepts Remain Crucial

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 279-284

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Alfred Habaasa

Independent

Abstract

As exports and imports of services continue to grow globally, Value Added Tax (VAT) on imported services has also taken a centre stage in most countries. Unlike goods, determining the place of consumption for services is often a contentious issue and a source of VAT controversy in many countries. In resolving these controversies, African courts, with a few exceptions, have established a visible criterion for determining the place of consumption of cross-border service transactions that aligns with the OECD International VAT/GST Guidelines. Where consumption is not at issue, most African countries have opted to deploy a reverse charge mechanism blended with a “register and comply” requirement for the foreign supplier in order to administer and collect VAT on the foreign supply (imported service). In this article, the author argues that African countries should deploy a reverse charge mechanism for B2B transactions and only use a “register and comply” requirement by non-residents for B2C services. visible criterion for determining the place of consumption of cross-border service transactions that aligns with the OECD International VAT/GST Guidelines. Where consumption is not at issue, most African countries have opted to deploy a reverse charge mechanism blended with a “register and comply” requirement for the foreign supplier in order to administer and collect VAT on the foreign supply (imported service). In this article, the author argues that African countries should deploy a reverse charge mechanism for B2B transactions and only use a “register and comply” requirement by non-residents for B2C services.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3x7qw4n



Keywords: VAT, import, case law, GST, supply (VAT)

Suggested Citation:

Habaasa, Alfred, VAT on Imported Services in Africa: Why Consumption and Reverse Charge Concepts Remain Crucial. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 279-284, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3x7qw4n
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies