Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has VAT Become Complex Because of its Methods of Interpretation?

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 234-241

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Christian Amand

Independent

Abstract

The guiding framework and the methods of interpretation of the VAT provisions at national and European levels are different depending on who is applying them and on the type of rule. The ECJ should apply a strict methodology when interpreting EU VAT rules based on their wording, context, purpose and origin, with the objective to not encroach upon the prerogatives of the legislator and to guarantee the coherence of the legal system. In this article the author argues that a fading memory of the European Treaties’ objectives and a limited use of accessible online historical archives contribute to the complexity of the understanding and application of the EU VAT system.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/35rq7vf

Keywords: VAT, VAT system, taxpayer, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Amand, Christian, Has VAT Become Complex Because of its Methods of Interpretation?. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 234-241, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/35rq7vf
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
49
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies