Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AU Secours De La TVA: It is Time for a True Union VAT System to Benefit Businesses, Member States and the EU Budget

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 261-262

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Ine Lejeune

Independent

Abstract

In this column, the author wishes for a harmonized Union VAT system to drive growth in the single market and reduce disputes. She provides suggestions to be considered by the EU Commission, Member States, EU Parliament’s FISC, Subcommittee on Tax Matters and the EU Commission’s VAT Expert Group to improve the VAT system in the European Union.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2f0yg7p

Keywords: VAT, harmonization of tax, VAT system

Suggested Citation:

Lejeune, Ine, AU Secours De La TVA: It is Time for a True Union VAT System to Benefit Businesses, Member States and the EU Budget. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 6, Pages 261-262, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2f0yg7p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
40
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies