Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The “Broken” Fixed Establishment Concept

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 198-202

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Alexis Tsielepis

Independent

Abstract

The fight to balance national budgets in the European Union has seen more aggressive interpretations of the VAT legislation by national tax authorities. The existence of the “fixed establishment” is an easy fight to pick. Given the unwillingness of the European Commission to provide substantive guidance, interpretation of the FE concept has been left to the ECJ. The author in this article examines the angle whereby the human and technical resources used by one group company in supplying services to another group company, are considered by tax authorities to constitute the FE of that latter company. In doing so, the author analyses the latest case from the ECJ and explains why the judgment should definitively close the door to such practices.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3wvvzfd

Keywords: VAT, fixed establishment, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Tsielepis, Alexis, The “Broken” Fixed Establishment Concept. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 198-202, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3wvvzfd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies