Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Special Edition for the IVA's 30th Anniversary

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 197

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Stephen Dale

Independent

Abstract

In this column, the author points out the very rapid expansion of VAT systems globally. He also mentions that the authors of the articles in this issue have selected a few different but very relevant subjects related to the functioning and the operation of VAT systems both within and outside the European Union to show their evolution over the last 30 years.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2tqma5p

Keywords: VAT, VAT system, history of taxation

Suggested Citation:

Dale, Stephen, Special Edition for the IVA's 30th Anniversary. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 5, Pages 197, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310983 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2tqma5p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies