Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The VAT Treatment of “Reward Crowdfunding”

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 78-85

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Adam Bartosiewicz

Independent

Abstract

Crowdfunding is a fast-growing phenomenon of the new digital economy. Many different fundraising models exist, including donation, reward, pre-sale, loan and equity crowdfunding. In this article, the author argues that a distinction ought to be made between reward crowdfunding and pre-sale crowdfunding. The author further discusses the VAT treatment applicable to reward crowdfunding, depending on the type of reward that is granted by the fundraiser to the backer.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1snpnd4

Keywords: VAT, crowdfunding

Suggested Citation:

Bartosiewicz, Adam, The VAT Treatment of “Reward Crowdfunding”. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 35 (2024), Issue 2, Pages 78-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5310958 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1snpnd4
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
66
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies