Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Treatment of Consumer-to-Consumer Supplies of Residential Premises in China

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 27-28

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Christine Peacock

Independent

Abstract

In China, the sale of larger and more expensive homes in Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Shenzhen which had been owned by individuals for two years or more was previously subject to VAT. From 1 December 2024, this is no longer the case. In this article, the author explains that this measure is expected to reduce the cost of housing and stimulate the housing market.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/28xr0sz

Keywords: VAT, supply (VAT)

Suggested Citation:

Peacock, Christine, VAT Treatment of Consumer-to-Consumer Supplies of Residential Premises in China. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 27-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5311004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/28xr0sz
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies