Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is VAT Incurred During the Recycling Process Involving Precious Metal Weight Accounts?: A German Perspective

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 21-26

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Thomas Streit

Independent

Dominic Schabert

Independent

Abstract

In this article the authors examine precious metal weight accounts in the context of German VAT Law. Such a topic is highly relevant to the framework of transactions involving precious metals, yet it is often overlooked in existing literature due to the lack of specific provisions. In Germany, the only source of guidance is a letter from the Federal Ministry of Finance. In the article, two scenarios are analysed, one within Germany and one involving an intra-Community transaction.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fx02zd

Keywords: VAT, domestic tax law, sustainable development, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Streit, Thomas and Schabert, Dominic, Is VAT Incurred During the Recycling Process Involving Precious Metal Weight Accounts?: A German Perspective. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 21-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5311010 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3fx02zd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
38
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies