Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practical Information on European VAT [2025]

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 29-44

Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Fabiola Annacondia

Independent

Abstract

As is traditional in the first issue of each year, this overview presents the key features of the VAT systems of most European countries (both EU and non-EU), including standard and reduced VAT rates, various thresholds, the format of the VAT identification numbers and contact details of the offices of the national tax administration which process VAT refund applications or provide information to non-resident businesses on national VAT rules. The overview is compiled by the editor on the basis of information provided by the members of the European Knowledge Group of IBFD at the beginning of 2025.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3rbxycc



Keywords: VAT, VAT rate, VAT refund, tax authorities

Suggested Citation:

Annacondia, Fabiola, Practical Information on European VAT [2025]. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 36 (2025), Issue 1, Pages 29-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5311006 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3rbxycc
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
61
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies