Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Need to Avoid Double Economic Taxation Triggered by CFC Rules under Tax Treaties, and the Way to Achieve It

18 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

Blazej Kuzniacki

Lazarski University

Date Written: December 01, 2015

Abstract

The present article [as originally published at the Intertax 12/2015] deals with the problem of double economic taxation triggered by (controlled foreign companies) CFC rules under tax treaties based the Model Tax Convention of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). In that respect, the author first provides and analyses several arguments speaking in favour of the thesis that OECD tax treaties target double economic taxation triggered by an application of the CFC rules and the treaties therefore require Contracting States applying CFC rules to avoid said double economic taxation. Subsequently, the way in which the double economic taxation should be avoided by Contracting States is discussed. Finally, the author concludes that the need to avoid double economic taxation triggered by the application of CFC rules under OECD tax treaties is internationally recognized and respected and that the appropriate way to achieve it is to credit taxes paid by the CFC if this company does not constitute a PE of its participants, or, exempt its income from taxation if it constitutes a PE of its participants and the exemption method applies to its income.

Suggested Citation:

Kuzniacki, Blazej, The Need to Avoid Double Economic Taxation Triggered by CFC Rules under Tax Treaties, and the Way to Achieve It (December 01, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5313928 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5313928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
See M Dahlberg , B Wiman
General Report: The Taxation of Foreign Passive Income for Groups of Companies , volume 2013 , p. 31 - 33
A Bullen , J See , R J Clifton Fleming , S E Peroni , Shay
It stems from the fact that persons covered by CFC rules usually are covered by transfer pricing provisions and CFC rules may target the same income as transfer pricing rules. See OECD, Designing Effective Controlled Foreign Company Rules
Final Report , volume 20 , p. 246 - 246 Posted: 2009
M Lang
47 Insuch cases, the application of CFC rules may exclude the application of GAARs pursuant to the principle of lex specialis derogat legi generali. This, however, depends on domestic law of a country applying CFC rules and GAAR. For instance the case law of German Federal Tax Court (Bundesfinanzhof) disallow for applying the German GAAR (s. 42 of the Tax Code, Abgabenordnung) when the more specific antiabuse rules in German tax law have already been applied by tax authorities in the same tax case and in relation to the same taxpayer. See the German Federal Tax Court's judgments of
Introducing an Antiabuse Rule in Tax Treaties , volume 29 Posted: 1999-12-15
For more on the use of 'analogy' in the interpretation of international law, see U. Linderfalk, On the Interpretation of Treaties The Modern International Law as Expressed in the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, 83
L. and Phil. Lib , volume 294
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
213
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies