Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
We the People... Deserve Fair Taxes

 31 Cardozo J. Equal Rts. & Soc. Just. 573 (2025)

33 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: September 14, 2024

Abstract

In a world where economic inequality is deepening, tax law has emerged as one of the most powerful tools for shaping social justice. This article explores how progressive taxation serves not only as a fiscal mechanism but as a reflection of societal values and the moral obligations of wealth. With legal methodologies such as Purposivism, Originalism, and Living Constitutionalism providing different interpretative lenses, this article delves into the crucial discourse surrounding income, tax avoidance, deductions, and wealth taxation.

Through an analysis of real-world tax policies and legal precedents, the article examines how these methodologies either perpetuate or challenge the current tax system’s role in addressing inequality. Are the constitutional frameworks built by the framers flexible enough to confront today’s economic disparities, or are they bound by the past? How can courts and legislators reconcile and justify protecting individual liberty with the pressing need for redistribution?

This article argues for a mixed-method approach, combining legal theory and progressive tax reforms to promote equity and fairness. By highlighting both theoretical and practical case studies, this article outlines a roadmap for modernizing tax policy to benefit not just the wealthiest, but society as a whole. With rising inequality posing significant risks to democratic institutions and societal cohesion, this article presents tax reform not just as an economic necessity but as a moral imperative.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Policy, Purposivism, Originalism, Living Constitutionalism, Legal Realism, Legal Theory, Economic Inequality, Tax Equity, Social Justice, Tax Fairness, Textualism, Law and Economics, Legal Positivism, Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, Deductions, Exemptions, Credits, Wealth Tax, Progressive Tax, Regressive Tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Shanan, Tamir, We the People... Deserve Fair Taxes (September 14, 2024).  31 Cardozo J. Equal Rts. & Soc. Just. 573 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5314834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5314834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
RANK
719,188
121 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies