Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US Taxation of Foreign Currency Derivatives: 30 Years of Uncertainty

Bulletin for International Taxation, volume 64, issue 3, 2010[10.59403/3dgs5xd]

Posted: 8 Jul 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Date Written: January 08, 2010

Abstract

In this text, Viva looks at how Foreign Currency contracts were required to be marked to market in the United States in 1982, but since then practitioners have argued about the scope of the rules. Hammer specifically, questions does this rule apply to foreign currency forwards only or to options, swaps, and other derivatives as well?

"Mark-to-market taxation was considered “a fundamental departure from the concept of income realization in the US tax law” when it was introduced in 1981. Congress would not have dared to propose the idea if not for the rampant use of “straddle” shelters by taxpayers that threatened to undermine both the US tax system and the commodities derivatives markets. The realization principle was enshrined in the law in a Supreme Court case, which limited Congress’ taxing power based on an interpretation of the US Constitution. Policymakers felt confident imposing mark to market on exchange-traded futures contracts in 1981, despite the Constitution, because of a unique feature of the US exchanges: the daily variation margin system. However, when taxpayers themselves became enamoured of the character advantage that came with mark-to-market taxation, Congress felt comfortable extending the rule to non-exchange-traded foreign currency contracts, even though this market had no equivalent to the daily variation margin. Because of its opportunistic, rather than policy-driven, history, there has been a great debate amongst tax practitioners as to the scope of the mark-to-market rule governing foreign currency contracts. Even today, companies subject to tax in the United States are unsure of the correct treatment of foreign currency options and swaps, and related contracts."

Keywords: Income realization, US tax law, Tax avoidance, Commodities derivatives markets, Foreign currency options, Tax law, Tax practitioners

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva, US Taxation of Foreign Currency Derivatives: 30 Years of Uncertainty (January 08, 2010). Bulletin for International Taxation, volume 64, issue 3, 2010[10.59403/3dgs5xd], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5327743
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies