Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Logic of the Revenge Tax

188 Tax Notes Federal 37-46, July 7, 2025

12 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2025 Last revised: 14 Jul 2025

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Date Written: June 28, 2025

Abstract

The United States possesses unique market power as a capital importer and provider of financial services to the rest of the world. It is thus in a strong position to raise revenue from foreign investors and users of American financial services, potentially in much more efficient and progressive ways than using tariffs on imported goods. However, it has historically applied unusually favorable income tax treatment to foreign investors. While the use of American market power to underwrite the country's exercise of hegemonic power (e.g., applying financial sanctions) is now familiar, Americans seem little aware of the potentials of its market power in global finance for raising revenue.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act formerly proposed adding section 899 to the Internal Revenue Code. Though commonly labeled the “revenge tax”, the proposal can be seen as a rare—and restrained—exercise of U.S. market power. It is used primarily to counter two foreign taxes that also rely on market power, thus embodying a stance that just as the U.S. has refrained from using its market power, so should other nations. This is the clearest in the response to digital services taxes: proposed section 899 is likely a better instrument for responding to DSTs than Section 301 tariffs. In the case of the UTPR under the OECD’s global minimum tax, proposed section 899 also counters a type of synthetic hegemon, exposing assumptions in UTPR design that have previously drawn little comment.

Keywords: digital services tax, global minimum tax, hegemonic power, market power, Pillar Two, One Big Beautiful Bill Act, retaliatory taxation, revenge tax, UTPR

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, The Logic of the Revenge Tax (June 28, 2025). 188 Tax Notes Federal 37-46, July 7, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5328097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5328097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
RANK
449,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies