Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Watchdogs or Accomplices? The Role of Third-Party Auditors in Corporate Tax Compliance


Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2025 - 04

48 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2025 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

Keshav Choudhary

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Bhanu Gupta

Ashoka University

Date Written: June 24, 2025

Abstract

Traditional tax audits are effective at raising revenue but are costly to scale. Can third-party auditors enhance compliance, or are they prone to collusion due to inherent conflicts of interest? We study a policy reform in India that introduced unanticipated changes in the revenue threshold for mandatory third-party audits. Using a combination of bunching and difference-in-differences methods on administrative data, we estimate that third-party audits can increase tax payments by around 45%, on average. However, firms with income or expenses already subject to third-party reporting exhibit smaller responses to private audits, reflecting a lower scope for manipulation. Our findings suggest that extending third-party audit requirements to smaller firms below the current threshold may be a cost-effective approach to increasing compliance in low state capacity settings.

Keywords: Third-party audit, Corporate tax, Evasion, Bunching

JEL Classification: H26, H32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Keshav and Gupta, Bhanu, Watchdogs or Accomplices? The Role of Third-Party Auditors in Corporate Tax Compliance
(June 24, 2025). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2025 - 04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5330960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5330960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Advani , W Elming , J Shaw
The dynamic effects of tax audits
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 105 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 561 Posted: 2023
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the radar: The effects of monitoring firms on tax compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
S Anagol , A Davids , B B Lockwood , T Ramadorai
Diffuse bunching with frictions: Theory and estimation
NBER Working Paper Posted: 2024
P Bachas , M Soto
Corporate taxation under weak enforcement
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 36 - 71 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
314
RANK
849,077
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies