Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Asymmetric Incidence of Business Taxes: Survey Evidence from German Firms

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 198

91 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2025

Richard Winter

University of Mannheim

Philipp Dörrenberg

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Fabian Eble

University of Mannheim Graduate School of Economic and Social Sciences, Students

Davud Rostam‐Afschar

University of Mannheim; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Global Labor Organization; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Johannes Voget

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 26, 2025

Abstract

We provide novel evidence on the incidence of business taxes using comprehensive survey and experimental data from German firms. Leveraging randomized variation in hypothetical tax changes, we find that the incidence of profit taxes is highly asymmetric. Tax decreases are more likely to benefit workers and stimulate investment, whereas tax increases tend to be passed on to consumers through higher prices and absorbed by firm owners through reduced profit distributions. Moreover, by varying the magnitude of the tax changes, we demonstrate that worker incidence increases with the absolute size of the tax change, partially offsetting the burden on firm owners.

Keywords: Corporate tax, tax incidence, firm behavior, investment, payout, wages

JEL Classification: D22, H00, H22, H25, J23, J30

Suggested Citation:

Winter, Richard and Dörrenberg, Philipp and Eble, Fabian and Rostam-Afschar, Davud and Voget, Johannes, The Asymmetric Incidence of Business Taxes: Survey Evidence from German Firms (June 26, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 198, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5337731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5337731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
Arulampalam , Michael P Wiji , Giorgia Devereux , Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , issue 6 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Alan J Auerbach
Who Bears the Corporate Tax? A Review of What We Know
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 20 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2006
Scott R Baker , Constantine Stephen Teng Sun , Yannelis
Corporate Taxes and Retail Prices Posted: 2023
Yoav Benjamini , Daniel Yekutieli
The Control of the False Discovery Rate in Multiple Testing under Dependency
The Annals of Statistics , volume 29 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
RANK
610,038
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies