Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does PCAOB Oversight Affect IRS Monitoring?

61 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2025

Shannon Chen

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Youkun Huang

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Justin Kim

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 03, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether and how the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's (PCAOB) inspection program is associated with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) monitoring of corporate taxpayers. Understanding if the IRS leverages the monitoring efforts of other regulators is important in light of the agency's budget constraints. We hypothesize that IRS monitoring decreases when the PCAOB serves as an additional monitor of the financial reporting process, consistent with the IRS reducing its monitoring efforts in response to improved audit and financial reporting quality. We exploit the staggered granting of PCAOB inspection access in foreign countries to examine our research question. Using a sample of foreign cross-listed companies, we find that IRS monitoring decreases after companies' auditors become subject to PCAOB inspections. This effect is stronger when companies use non-Big 4 auditors, whereas the effect is weaker when the IRS has more budget and personnel. Furthermore, when PCAOB inspection reports reveal audit deficiencies, we find an increase in IRS monitoring, which suggests that the agency steps up its monitoring efforts when financial reporting quality is potentially low. In summary, our findings suggest that PCAOB oversight has spillover effects on IRS monitoring, and our study provides insights to decision makers weighing long-term policies affecting the IRS and PCAOB.

Keywords: IRS monitoring, PCAOB inspection access, PCAOB inspection reports, Regulatory interaction

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shannon and Huang, Youkun and Kim, Justin, Does PCAOB Oversight Affect IRS Monitoring? (July 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5338374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5338374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered differencein-differences estimates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on staggered DiD for accounting researchers Posted: 2024
J J Blann , P T Lamoreaux , B J Larson
National Audit Oversight and Foreign Investment Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
RANK
687,646
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies