Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Tax Clinic Framework for Public Benefit Organisations in South Africa

30 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2025

Mandisi Gwabavu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Phathutshedzo Tshiuda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Keneilwe Ndhlovu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Garry Sekgobela

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Public Benefit Organisations (PBOs) in South Africa encounter considerable difficulties in navigating complex tax regulations, especially those stipulated in the Income Tax, which delineates tax exemptions and compliance obligations. The challenges of limited tax literacy, administrative burdens, and difficulties in obtaining funding compromise the financial sustainability of PBOs and their capacity to mitigate socio-economic disparities. This study presents a framework for tax clinics to improve PBOs' compliance, financial stability, and developmental impact. This research utilises an integrative literature review methodology, construct analysis, thematic analysis, and snowball sampling to synthesise multidisciplinary evidence from public administration, regulatory compliance, facilities management, stakeholder theory, and the triple bottom line. The proposed framework integrates a theoretical basis, and a five-phase implementation strategy: research, design, implementation, enabling, and expansion. Key contributions include a tailored tax clinic theoretical and conceptual framework for PBOs, addressing operational and regulatory needs, and a practical strategy for scalable tax support services. The findings underscore the capacity of tax clinics to enhance tax literacy, guarantee compliance, and promote stakeholder engagement, which aligns with South Africa’s National Development Plan and Sustainable Development Goals. Future research should focus on empirical validation, longitudinal impact assessments, and the exploration of digitalisation to improve accessibility and sustainability.

Keywords: Integrative Literature Review, Public Benefit Organisation, Tax Clinics, Tax compliance, South Africa

Suggested Citation:

Gwabavu, Mandisi and Tshiuda, Phathutshedzo and Ndhlovu, Keneilwe and Sekgobela, Garry, Developing a Tax Clinic Framework for Public Benefit Organisations in South Africa. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5340610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5340610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
N Amoo , J Hiddlestone-Mumford , J Ruzibuka , C Akwei
Conceptualising and measuring strategy implementation: A multidimensional view
Strategic Change , volume 28 , issue 6 , p. 445 - 467 Posted: 2019
R Andrews , G A Boyne , J Law , R M Walker
Strategy implementation and public service performance
Administration & Society , volume 43 , issue 6 , p. 643 - 671 Posted: 2011
J B Barney
Resource-based theories of competitive advantage: A ten-year retrospective
Journal of Management , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 643 - 650 Posted: 2001
M Beer , R A Eisenstat
The silent killers of strategy implementation and learning
MIT Sloan Management Review , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 29 - 40 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
703,106
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies