Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Papal-American Tax Problems and a Solution

6 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2025

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: June 16, 2025

Abstract

On May 8 the College of Cardinals elevated the American-born Robert Francis Prevost to be the newest Pope of the Roman Catholic Church, whereupon he chose the regnal name Leo XIV. Many commentators have noted the Pope’s tax challenges as a U.S. citizen subject to U.S. federal income taxation on worldwide income. Tax practitioners have also considered analogous situations in history and tradition: Prince Albert II, the son of American actress Grace Kelly, renounced his U.S. citizenship before he became the Prince of Monaco in 2005; Thai King Rama IX was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts; American teenager Mia Thermopolis became a princess and heir to the Kingdom of Genovia; American journalist Amber Moore married into the royal family and became a queen of the Kingdom of Aldovia; and American actress Meghan Markle married into a cadet branch of the House of Mountbatten-Windsor based in London.

The Pope’s U.S. federal income tax issues can be mitigated by Vatican City creating and imposing a personal income tax that is substantially similar to the U.S. income tax. The Pope would pay the Vatican City income tax and then use the U.S. foreign tax credit to reduce his U.S. federal income tax to zero. A Vatican City income tax would also allow the city-state to be in the good graces of American tax law professors and government officials who complain about small countries with low or zero income taxes. 

This article does not use gender neutral language. 


Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Papal-American Tax Problems and a Solution (June 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5340391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5340391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Reg
T D
, volume 7918 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
482
RANK
386,928
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies