Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Implications of Contingent Convertible Securities

19 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2025

Viva Hammer

Brandeis University; Crawford School of Public Policy; KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Sam Chen

KPMG International, LLP - Washington National Tax

Date Written: March 01, 2012

Abstract

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) authorizes the Federal Reserve to require bank and nonfinancial holding companies to maintain a minimum amount of contingent capital that is convertible to equity in times of financial stress. The Basel Committee and the related Financial Stability Board have also reviewed additional measures that might include capital surcharges, contingent capital, and “bail-in” debt. On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued a notice setting out requirements in this area for banking institutions to follow. In the notice, it directed that all non-common Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments issued by any internationally active bank must provide that, at the option of the local banking authority, the instrument will be written off or converted into common equity if the local banking authority determines the bank would otherwise become non-viable. While there was no direct precedent for this type of instrument in the past, several financial institutions have recently issued instruments, known as contingent convertible bonds or “CoCos,” that appear to satisfy this provision. CoCos convert automatically to common equity when certain capital adequacy metrics are met or trigger other equity-type features in such an event. Several financial institutions have issued their own versions of CoCos. For example, in November 2009, the Lloyds Banking Group issued subordinated securities with fixed maturities ranging from 10 to 15 years, which automatically convert into equity whenever Lloyd’s core Tier 1 ratio decreases to less than 5%. At issuance, Lloyd’s core Tier 1 ratio was approximately 8.6%. The conversion price was set at approximately 65% of the current market trading price of Lloyd’s common shares at the notes’ date of issuance.





Keywords: Dodd-Frank Act, Basel Committee, Financial Stability Board, Contingent Convertible Bonds (CoCos), Debt-Equity Classification, Tax Law, Federal Reserve

Suggested Citation:

Hammer, Viva and Chen, Sam, Tax Implications of Contingent Convertible Securities (March 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5341329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5341329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
1 capital instruments issued by U.K. building societies that generally carry voting rights on a one vote per holder basis, pay dividends that are variable and fully discretionary, and can be written down in value based on the lack of profitability of the building society
PPDS are core Tier
Boris Albul
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 2010 Financial Markets Conference and available at Posted: 2010-04-25
Global systemically important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement
Unless otherwise indicated, all section references are to the Internal Revenue Code or Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. 18 1985-2 C.B. 60. 19 1994-1 C , volume 357
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
187
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies