Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Reactions to the Global Minimum Tax: Evidence from China

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2025

Ziye He

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The Pillar Two framework of international tax reform, through its establishment of a 15% global minimum corporate income tax rate, represents a beneficial attempt to curb harmful tax competition and tax avoidance by multinational enterprises. While existing research predominantly examines the theoretical implications of the global minimum tax (GMT) on national fiscal revenues and tax burdens of multinational corporations, there remains a lack of empirical analysis regarding its microeconomic consequences. Using financial and stock trading data from China's A-share non-financial listed companies, this study pioneers an empirical investigation using OLS regression and event study methodology to assess the capital market reactions triggered by the GMT in China. Results show a moderate negative correlation between firms' exposure to the GMT and their stock returns. Enterprises most affected by the reform exhibited declines in stock returns following the announcement of GMT-related events, a finding consistent with industry-level analysis. This research contributes to the measurement of the impacts of international tax reform on developing economies, provides micro-level evidence for evaluating investors' expectations regarding the effects of GMT on Chinese corporate asset pricing, and establishes preliminary frameworks for examining how international tax reforms influence multinational enterprises’ tax planning strategies and resource reallocation.

Keywords: International tax reform, Global Minimum Tax, Capital market reaction, Investor expectations, stock returns

Suggested Citation:

He, Ziye, Capital Market Reactions to the Global Minimum Tax: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5342289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5342289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
288
RANK
856,872
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies