Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fighting for Fair Taxes: How the Federal Tax Ombudsperson and Traditional Judiciary Stand Up for Taxpayers' Rights

5 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2025

M. Saad Farooq

University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan.

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

This study explores various concepts regarding tax challenges and litigation-related issues within Pakistan's judicial system, such as delays in justice for taxpayers and improper revenue collection. It illustrates how the judicial system is overburdened with tax-related proceedings. It also breaks down how the Federal Tax Ombudsman (FTO) assists individuals with tax problems, ensuring that taxpayers are treated fairly. You will see how the FTO intervenes to protect individuals ' rights and whether it effectively resolves disputes quickly and fairly. Additionally, it demonstrates how the FTO is structured to address taxpayer complaints and stakeholder-related issues promptly. This study also identifies several challenges resolved by the FTO and provides an analysis of the resolution of these challenges. It presents an analytical view of the decisions made by the FTO. Moreover, this study offers findings for policymakers, judicial mechanisms, and tax authorities aimed at enhancing the efficiency of tax grievance resolution in Pakistan.

Keywords: Taxpayer's Rights and Remedies, Tax Dispute Resolutions, Tax Policies in Pakistan

Suggested Citation:

Farooq, M. Saad, Fighting for Fair Taxes: How the Federal Tax Ombudsperson and Traditional Judiciary Stand Up for Taxpayers' Rights (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5346285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies