Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Citizenship in Modular Tax Systems

Taxation, Citizenship and Democracy in the 21st Century edited by Yvette Lind and Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, published in 2024, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd

16 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Ira Lindsay

University of Surrey - School of Law

Date Written: July 10, 2024

Abstract

Increasing cross-border mobility of workers makes the binary distinctions between resident and non-resident dubious as a normative matter and open to manipulation as a practical matter. An alternative to comprehensive income tax systems is a modular tax system that raises revenue through multiple taxes with different criteria for liability. The rise of modular tax systems allows for a more finely calibrated approach to taxing cross-border workers and for rethinking the relationship between citizenship and taxation in two respects. States could levy a modest tax on expatriates maintaining their citizenship while living abroad. Resident citizens might pay additional taxes that support benefits not available to non-citizens. The two proposals complement each other but have very different feasibility conditions. Linking taxation and citizenship in this way does not reflect an inappropriately mercenary approach to civic life, but instead mitigates unfair advantages enjoyed by internationally mobile workers.

Keywords: Citizenship, Citizenship Taxation, Tax Fairness, Expatriates, International Mobility

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Ira, Citizenship in Modular Tax Systems (July 10, 2024). Taxation, Citizenship and Democracy in the 21st Century edited by Yvette Lind and Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, published in 2024, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5346543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5346543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Martin Daunton
Trusting Leviathan: The Politics of Taxation in Britain Posted: 2001
Eg John , Stuart Mill
Principles of Political Economy , volume II , p. 346 - 366 Posted: 1848
Ajay K Mehrotra
Making the Modern American Fiscal State , p. 9 - 10 Posted: 2013
Eg Edwin , R A Seligman , Harry Kalven , & Walter , J Blum
The Uneasy Case for Progressive Taxation' (1952) 19 University of Chicago Law Review 417
Political Science Quarterly , volume 8 Posted: 1893
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
131
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies