Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU Minimum Tax Directive-A conceptual discussion of a bold policy move

15 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Moritz Scherleitner

Aalto, Business Law

Date Written: March 04, 2025

Abstract

The century old international tax system is in the middle of being rebuilt. In the ongoing multilateral efforts to reform international taxation to better accord with the challenges imposed by digitalisation and globalisation, the EU has taken in very active role. In the end of 2022, this has resulted in the adoption of the Minimum Tax Directive (2022/2325), which obliges EU Member States to implement the soft-law compromise achieved at the level of the OECD and the Inclusive Framework on Global Anti-Base Erosion (GLoBE) Model Rules. Particularly against the background of the EU's traditional reluctance to become active in this area, the author aims to contextualise this remarkable policy step in EU economic policy. The author demonstrates that implementing minimum taxation rules in the form of a legally binding and enforceable directive is, in principle, the proper thing to do in a setting characterised by heterogeneous interests of states and high tax competitive pressures. However, the institutional framework governing the implementation of the directive and its future development is not viable. Unanimous decision-making in the Council under Article 115 TFEU risks locking Member States into a specific version of an international soft law compromise, which continues to evolve outside the EU, without any guarantee that Member States will maintain consistent positions in this context. This reinforces the need for a serious debate on the adequacy of Article 115 TFEU as a legal basis for direct tax harmonisation. 1 | AN OUTDATED INTERNATIONAL TAX REGIME IN A CONTEXT OF GROWING MULTILATERALISM 1.1 | What are the challenges in international taxation? The international tax system is widely regarded as outdated. 1 Its cornerstones were developed in the 1920s. It thus does not take into consideration the economic and social transformations that have occurred since

Suggested Citation:

Scherleitner, Moritz, The EU Minimum Tax Directive-A conceptual discussion of a bold policy move (March 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5348939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5348939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
W For Example , Schön
Neutrality and Territoriality-Competing or Converging Concepts in European Tax Law?
Bull. Int'l Tax Posted: 2015
Direct Tax Matters in European Tax Law, sec. 14.2. In this regard, also note that, while Member States themselves alleviate the problem by entering into double tax conventions, there is nothing in EU law that requires any action to prevent double taxation that can result from the interaction of two Member States' tax systems , p. 134 - 150
See
including a more detailed discussion
W. Schön, 69 Bull. Int'l Tax Posted: 2015
P Wattel
Direct Tax Matters in European Tax Law
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
53
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies