Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Different Strokes: The Approaches of Different Legal Systems to Treaty Interpretation in the Context of the International Agreement on Taxation and the Protection of Financial Interests Between the Kingdom of Spain and The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Regarding Gibraltar

23 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Manuel Benitez Perez

Universidad de Cádiz

Date Written: July 13, 2025

Abstract

This paper attempts to draw out the difficulties in interpreting novel tax treaty language across international boundaries. The UK Spain "International Agreement on Taxation and the Protection of Financial Interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Regarding Gibraltar" is an entirely novel document and deviates far from the language of the OECD Model Convention on Income and Capital whilst echoing that language in places. The authors are a Gibraltarian lawyer and a Spanish lawyer, they lay out their respective jurisdictions' approaches to interpreting treaty language and then perform comparative interpretations of a number of the treaty's provisions. They conclude that when approaching common language from their respective standpoints there is always a risk that a common interpretation may not be possible without judicial assistance.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Gibraltar, Spain, Treaty, International Taxation, OECD Model Treaty

Declaration of Interest

No interests were required to be declared

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

The work is entirely self funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Benitez Perez, Manuel, Different Strokes: The Approaches of Different Legal Systems to Treaty Interpretation in the Context of the International Agreement on Taxation and the Protection of Financial Interests Between the Kingdom of Spain and The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Regarding Gibraltar (July 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5349957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5349957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
560
RANK
386,928
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies