Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Guest Editorial- Special Issue: Environmental, Social, Governance and Taxation

“Editorial Note” (2024) 22(3) eJournal of Tax Research 417-419

3 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Amy Lawton

University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Law School

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

This special issue of the eJournal of Tax Research comprises five articles that are a selection of papers that were originally presented at the SMU–Edinburgh Environmental, Social, Governance and Taxation Conference hosted by the Yong Pung How School of Law, Singapore Management University in April 2024. The conference was opened by the Honourable Judicial Commissioner Alex Wong Li Kok of the Supreme Court of Singapore, who assured attendees that the importance of environmental, social, governance (ESG) aspirations was not lost on the judiciary.

The conference focused on important issues such as whether taxation should form a fourth pillar (ESG(T)), or whether taxation already has an existing home in the existing ESG pillars. It also explored the role that taxation plays in sustainability and environmental protection more generally. The articles in this special issue expand on these core themes, incorporating the rich discussion and feedback provided over the course of the conference.

Keywords: Tax Law, Taxation, ESG, Sustainability Law

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent and Lawton, Amy, Guest Editorial- Special Issue: Environmental, Social, Governance and Taxation (December 01, 2024). “Editorial Note” (2024) 22(3) eJournal of Tax Research 417-419, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5350272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies