Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law (Chapter 19)

“Tax Law”, in Simon Chesterman, Goh Yihan and Andrew Phang (eds), Law and Technology: The Practice and Content of Law in Singapore (2nd Ed) (Academy Publishing) (2025)

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

The first edition of this chapter was divided into three main parts: (a) international tax law; (b) domestic tax law; and (c) tax and regulation. This second edition updates each of these parts and adds two new areas for discussion: (d) taxation of crypto assets; and (e) taxation and generative artificial intelligence (“AI”). In line with the intention that this chapter (and, more generally, the book) be used as a primer, leading publications for each of these areas will be referenced, for readers to do further reading if they so wish.

Keywords: Taxation Law, Digital Taxation, Singapore Law

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Tax Law (Chapter 19) (May 01, 2024). “Tax Law”, in Simon Chesterman, Goh Yihan and Andrew Phang (eds), Law and Technology: The Practice and Content of Law in Singapore (2nd Ed) (Academy Publishing) (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350252
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
65
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies