Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Recent Developments in the Taxation of Cross-Border Services: LATAM Position(s) on the UN Terms of Reference (ToR)

25 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2025 Last revised: 27 Jul 2025

Alina Miyake

University of Sao Paulo (USP), Faculty of Law (FD), Department of Economic, Financial, and Tax Law, Students; FGV Direito Rio, Getulio Vargas Foundation São Paulo Law School

Date Written: July 10, 2025

Abstract

This paper aims to analyse the recent developments on the expansion of source taxing rights concerning technical and/or digital cross-border services. For this purpose, the idea is to analyse what are the legal strategies being formed for the taxation (or not) of cross-border services in the United Nations (UN), especially in the scope of the UN Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation (Framework Convention) and how these strategies connect with the current geopolitical environment. Our analysis focuses on the Latin American prior experience on the taxation of technical services and/or technical assistance, and how these rules have evolved after the digitalisation of the economy.

Keywords: Cross-Border Services, UN Terms of Reference, UN Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation, Tax Treaties, UN Model Tax Convention Between Developed and Developing Countries, Technical Services, Automated Digital Services, Early Protocols, Latin America

Suggested Citation:

Miyake, Alina,

Recent Developments in the Taxation of Cross-Border Services: LATAM Position(s) on the UN Terms of Reference (ToR)

(July 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5350884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies