Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Shift from an Inclusionary to an Exclusionary Focus- the Relatively Late Appearance of Beneficial Ownership in UK Tax Statutes

“The Shift from an Inclusionary to an Exclusionary Focus: The Relatively Late Appearance of Beneficial Ownership in UK Tax Statutes”, in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (Eds) Studies in the History of Tax Law Volume 12 (Hart) (2025) (Forthcoming)

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Beneficial ownership is a prominent method of attribution used today, applied in situations where it is necessary to connect an asset to a person for various purposes across different areas of law such as equity and trusts, tax, property, and anti-money laundering. Much has been written about the concept in tax law in modern times, though perhaps less about the historical origins and development of the concept. This chapter seeks to fill a gap in the literature discussing the history of the concept, utilising as its primary method of analysis the study of historical statutes and how they evolved over time. It starts with the modern conception of beneficial ownership as a concept inextricable from the law of equity, with its core being the idea that a person has a legal duty to hold assets for the benefit of another (to the exclusion of its own benefit).

Keywords: Tax Law, Equity and Trusts, Beneficial Ownership, Tax History, Legal History

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, The Shift from an Inclusionary to an Exclusionary Focus- the Relatively Late Appearance of Beneficial Ownership in UK Tax Statutes (July 01, 2024). “The Shift from an Inclusionary to an Exclusionary Focus: The Relatively Late Appearance of Beneficial Ownership in UK Tax Statutes”, in Peter Harris and Dominic de Cogan (Eds) Studies in the History of Tax Law Volume 12 (Hart) (2025) (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350243
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
58
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies