Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership and the Attribution of the Res in UK Tax Law

Beneficial Ownership and the Attribution of the Res in UK Tax Law (Cambridge) (2023)

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: October 01, 2023

Abstract

In UK tax law, the beneficial ownership concept is an important method of attribution which connects a res to an owner for the purposes of tax law. The title of this thesis may be broken down into four components: 1) beneficial ownership; 2) attribution; 3) res; and 4) UK tax law. This thesis will therefore explore what beneficial ownership is, how it performs its main function of attributing a res to a person, what a res is and what other rights may be attributed, and how the above applies within the confines of UK tax law. This thesis briefly discusses related (but distinct) concepts of beneficial ownership in other areas of tax law but focuses on the concept as it applies in the context of what it refers to as ‘UK domestic tax law’. Beneficial ownership is part of a group of related concepts (referred to collectively in this thesis as ‘combined subdivision variants’) which largely serve a similar purpose and are often interchangeably used. More broadly, beneficial ownership is one of several methods of attribution used in UK tax law to connect a res (or, more broadly, an asset) to a person for various tax purposes. This thesis considers the distinctiveness of the beneficial ownership concept and how it fits within this broad taxonomy of methods of attribution. Four main research questions have been framed and answered by this thesis: 1) why is it important to attribute assets (and res) to persons under UK tax law; 2) what are the methods of attribution (especially beneficial ownership) and how are they used in UK tax law; 3) how can the methods of attribution be used in legislative drafting to achieve tax policy goals; and 4) how might a framework for using methods of attribution to achieve drafting goals be developed?

Keywords: Tax Law, Equity and Trusts, Beneficial Ownership, Tax History, Legal History

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Beneficial Ownership and the Attribution of the Res in UK Tax Law (October 01, 2023). Beneficial Ownership and the Attribution of the Res in UK Tax Law (Cambridge) (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350275
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
73
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies