Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership in Domestic Tax Legislation, Some Clarity, But Far from “Well Established”

“Beneficial Ownership in Domestic Tax Legislation, Some Clarity, But Far From ‘Well Established’” (2025) Legal Studies (Forthcoming)

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: January 01, 2025

Abstract

The concept of beneficial ownership is extensively used in domestic tax legislation, but several decades of inconsistent case law have muddied the waters as to exactly what it means. With the leading cases stopping short of the apex court, it is difficult to reconcile the cases and come up with a clear definition of beneficial ownership. The recent Hargreaves decision by Falk LJ (with whom Nugee and Peter Jackson LJJ agreed) represents the most structured judicial attempt to rationalise the concept to date. This note humbly suggests that contrary to Falk LJ’s statement that the concept is “well established”, the law pre-Hargreaves was far from clear. This situation has since been greatly improved through the efforts of Falk LJ, though further questions remain for future judicial clarification.

Keywords: Tax Law, Equity and Trusts, Beneficial Ownership

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Beneficial Ownership in Domestic Tax Legislation, Some Clarity, But Far from “Well Established” (January 01, 2025). “Beneficial Ownership in Domestic Tax Legislation, Some Clarity, But Far From ‘Well Established’” (2025) Legal Studies (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350266
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies