Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Crypto-Asset Transactions- Foundations for a Globally Coordinated Approach (Book Review)

(2024) 5 British Tax Review 790-792

Posted: 26 Jul 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

With the total market capitalisation of crypto-assets amounting to trillions of US dollars, it is clear that crypto taxation needs to be taken seriously by both tax administrations and taxpayers. Over the past few years, numerous tax administrations around the world have devoted resources to crypto taxation, as evidenced by the substantial amount of guidance that has been made available to taxpayers. International organisations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations have also released publications on crypto taxation. Despite all these domestic and international efforts to provide guidance on crypto taxation, there remains considerable uncertainty as to the tax treatment of crypto-assets and transactions. In the first chapter of this excellent book by Shaun Parsons, the current situation is summed up concisely, highlighting “global tax confusion over the treatment of crypto-assets”, absence of a globally coordinated approach, and “lack of consensus about what those tax consequences should be”.

Keywords: Taxation, Taxation Law, Tax Law, Cryptocurrencies, Digital Tokens

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H2, H20, H24, H25, H26, H27, H29

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Taxing Crypto-Asset Transactions- Foundations for a Globally Coordinated Approach (Book Review) (December 01, 2024). (2024) 5 British Tax Review 790-792, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350230
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
182
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies