Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Management's Financial Experience, Backgrounds in Regulatory and Non-Regulatory Financial Institutions, and Corporate Tax Aggressiveness

74 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 24 Aug 2025

Zhe Li

Queen Mary University of London - School of Business and Management

Yukun Cao

University of York - Department of Economics and Related Studies

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

This research examines the interplay between the financial work experience of top management team (TMT) members, their backgrounds in regulatory and non-regulatory financial institutions, and corporate tax aggressiveness. Utilizing a large sample of Chinese listed companies, we find that companies led by top executives (such as CEOs) with financial expertise tend to exhibit lower effective tax rates (ETRs) and larger book-tax differences. Firms with a greater proportion of financially skilled executives on the TMT are more likely to engage in tax avoidance activities. Next, our channel analysis reveals that top executives with experience in non-regulatory-oriented financial institutions are more likely to engage in tax avoidance, whereas those with backgrounds in regulatory-oriented institutions (i.e., stock exchanges, policy banks, or regulatory commissions) exhibit no significant effect. Cross-sectional analyses further reveal that institutional shareholders amplify the tax aggressiveness associated with financially expert executives having experience in non-regulatory-oriented institutions, and that these executives are more likely to intensify tax avoidance following regulatory sanctions, as a strategy to preserve firm value or recover from reputational setbacks. Finally, we find that tax avoidance initiatives led by financially expert executives are more effectively translated into enhanced future firm value.

Keywords: Managerial Financial Experience, Regulatory-Oriented and Non-Regulatory Financial Institutions, Effective Tax Rates, Book–Tax Differences, Firm Value

Declaration of Interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zhe and Cao, Yukun, Top Management's Financial Experience, Backgrounds in Regulatory and Non-Regulatory Financial Institutions, and Corporate Tax Aggressiveness (January 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5352374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5352374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of errorcomponents models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
J M Argilés-Bosch , D Ravenda , J Garcia-Blandón
E-commerce and labour tax avoidance
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 81 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
G Baghdadi , E J Podolski , M Veeraraghavan
CEO risk-seeking and corporate tax avoidance: Evidence from pilot CEOs
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 76 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
143
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies