Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Tax Complexity Affects the Bilateral Resolution of Double Taxation

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 200

40 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2025

Stefan Baaken

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU)

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Felix Siegel

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

Due to increasing numbers of unresolved double taxation issues and the prominent discussion in the OECD BEPS project, mutual agreement procedures (MAPs) gained large attention during the last years. Even though experts acknowledge the role of tax complexity in curbing caseloads, little is known about its influence on the occurrence and outcome of MAPs. For this purpose, we first provide a theoretical framework based on transaction cost theory to explain the dynamics in the two-stage MAP process. This is followed by an empirical investigation of 5,975 MAP deals from 2018 to 2021 that we tie onto the tax complexity index by Hoppe et al. (2023). Thereby, we differentiate between the influence of tax code and tax framework complexity. Our main results are as follows: First and counterintuitively, tax code complexity has a positive effect on the occurrence and bilateral resolution as outcome of MAPs. Second and as expected, tax framework complexity has a negative effect on the occurrence and bilateral resolution as outcome of MAPs. By being the first to empirically investigate this relation, we draw a differentiated picture on the influence of tax complexity on the bilateral resolution of MAPs: First, MAPs seem to be an accepted instrument for taxpayers to resolve double taxation issues in complex legal environments. Second, high tax code complexity might hint to the use of 'package deals' where complex, but similar cases are bundled and decided as a whole and not individually. Third, highly complex tax frameworks might have a 'deterring effect' on taxpayers to actually step into the process and also hinder authorities in achieving a bilateral resolution as outcome of MAPs. In contrast, we can show that a high tax framework complexity in both countries leads to more unilateral double tax relief by tax authorities.

Keywords: Mutual Agreement Procedures, Double Taxation, Tax Complexity, Transaction Cost Theory

Suggested Citation:

Baaken, Stefan and Schanz, Deborah and Siegel, Felix, How Tax Complexity Affects the Bilateral Resolution of Double Taxation (July 15, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 200, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5352641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5352641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
P Bacchetta , M Espinosa
Information sharing and tax competition among governments
Journal of International Economics , volume 39 , issue 1-2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 1995
E Baistrocchi , M Hearson
Tax Treaty Disputes: A Global Quantitative Analysis Posted: 2013
In Baistrocchi , E
A Global Analysis of Tax Treaty Disputes
M Bertolini , P Weaver
Mandatory Arbitration within Tax Treaties: A Need for a Coherent International Standard
The ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
261
RANK
915,095
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies