Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
BEPS: Endgame

54 University of Memphis Law Review Memphis Law Review 83 (Fall 2023).

47 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Adam H. Rosenzweig

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: September 01, 2023

Abstract

By all accounts the international tax regime is facing a transformational moment marking the end of international tax avoidance by multinational corporations through a concerted global effort at tax reform spearheaded by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project.  BEPS initially began as a technical project to identify and propose remedies for many of the more complex and persistent planning techniques in cross-border taxation.  After a series of remarkably successful breakthroughs, however, the scope of BEPS grew into a much more ambitious project with the OECD identifying fifteen specific action items it would pursue with the ultimate goal being the emergence of a single set of global rules and principles agreed to by nearly every country in the world.  To this end, in 2022 the OECD announced that over one hundred countries had entered into an agreement to establish a global minimum corporate tax—the first of its kind.  Both the U.S. Secretary of Treasury and the President of the United States hailed the agreement as the beginning of the end of international corporate tax evasion forever.

Despite these remarkable successes, however, BEPS has also faced a number of delays and disappointments throughout the process. For the most part, especially given its recent successes, these setbacks have been dismissed as minor “speed bumps” along the way toward an ultimate comprehensive final agreement.  But what if this was not the case?  What if these small but recurring setbacks actually comprise a feature of the BEPS negotiations rather than a bug?  In such case, dismissing or disregarding these setbacks might not only mean they will continue to recur but under certain conditions could ultimately undermine the success of the entire project itself.  This article will directly confront these setbacks by analyzing them within the framework of international negotiation theory, and in particular recent strands of the negotiations literature sometimes referred to as “False Negotiations” theory.  In doing so, this article will identify the conditions under which certain states may be actively engaged in the negotiation process and even cooperative on major issues but ultimately do not have an incentive for the process to result in a final negotiated solution but rather are actively engaged in the negotiations solely to maintain a state of perpetual negotiations.  In short, there are conditions under which prolonged negotiations would be preferable to either a successful or failed final negotiated agreement.  In such cases, the result would be a repeated loop of negotiations marked by periods of remarkable success followed shortly by recurring minor setbacks significant enough to delay the process but not so significant to cause the negotiations to fail.  If true, these incentives must be incorporated into any BEPS analysis before any final outcome might be possible.  In other words, BEPS can finally break out of its cycle of False Negotiations and finally enter its endgame.


Keywords: tax, taxation, international taxation, cross-border taxation, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, BEPS, corporate tax, global minimum corporate tax, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, tax evasion, international corporate tax evasion, international negotiation theory, False Negotiations theory

Suggested Citation:

Rosenzweig, Adam H., BEPS: Endgame (September 01, 2023). 54 University of Memphis Law Review Memphis Law Review 83 (Fall 2023)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5356282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5356282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Hubbard
, volume 1
Yun-Chien Chang , William Hubbard
New Empirical Tests for Classic Litigation Selection Models: Evidence from a Low Settlement Environment, 23 AM
L. & ECON. REV , volume 348 , p. 365 - 367 Posted: 2021
Polly Kang
We introduce a new term, insincere negotiations, to describe negotiations in which a negotiator has non-agreement goals , volume 89 Posted: 2020
E G See , V Lilian , Faulhaber
Diverse Interests and International Legitimation: Public Choice Theory and the Politics of International Tax , volume 114 , p. 266 - 269 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
148
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Negotiation & Dispute Resolution eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies