Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Dynamic Allocation Method Works for Hard-to-Value Intangibles

Tax Notes International, Volume 119, P.53

11 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2025

Anand Raj

Boston University, School of Law; Independent

Date Written: July 03, 2025

Abstract

Intangibles are property that have value but cannot be seen or touched. Among other items, they include patents, copyrights, trademarks, computer software, and secret formulas. When intangibles are transferred in controlled transactions within multinational enterprises, transfer pricing rules apply to prevent base erosion and profit shifting.

A key to solving most transfer pricing problems is finding a comparable transaction, used to provide a credible and accurate market-based measure of the value of the transaction under review. However, given the uniqueness of some legally protected or high-tech intangibles it can be nearly impossible to find an external comparable that fully fits. Thus, there is a category of high-value intangibles for which there are no reliable comparables and whose future revenue projections remain uncertain despite considerable traditional analysis at the time a transaction is undertaken. 

This article proposes using the Dynamic Allocation Method (DAM) as a solution to this pricing challenge. DAM is built on a synthesis of landmark U.S. transfer pricing jurisprudence, OECD HTVI guidance, and IRS regulations. Through practical examples, we demonstrate how DAM can serve as a practical method for allocating income from HTVIs.

Suggested Citation:

Raj, Anand, Why the Dynamic Allocation Method Works for Hard-to-Value Intangibles (July 03, 2025). Tax Notes International, Volume 119, P.53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5358947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5358947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
108
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies