Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Two Aspects of the Rule of Law

In Tax, Public Finance and the Rule of Law, Dominic de Cogan, Alexis Brassey and May Hen-Smith, eds. Hart Publishing, 2025.

14 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Ira Lindsay

University of Surrey - School of Law

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

Tax avoidance disputes present a conflict between preventing tax schemes that frustrate public policy and the rule of law. When considering the connection between taxation and the rule of law, it is helpful to distinguish between two aspects of the rule of law. The narrow-scope rule of law concerns whether disputes are decided according to legal norms that are general, prospective and impartial. The widescope rule of law concerns whether the government rules through law or through some extra-legal method and whether the government respects existing legal entitlements. Although closely connected, the two aspects of the rule of law are distinct: a violation of the rule of law in one sense does not necessarily have significant implications for the aspect of the rule of law. Tax disputes implicate both aspects of the rule of law. Tax adjudication violates narrow-scope rule of law when it ignores established law, appeals to legal norms that are not known in advance or renders judgments on grounds of personal partiality. Taxation violates wide-scope rule of law when used to expropriate politically unfavoured parties, confer benefits on politically favoured parties, or regularly shift tax burdens in arbitrary and unpredictable ways. This understanding of the rule of law does not yield any straightforward argument in favour of more formal methodologies of statutory interpretation or against anti-abuse rules. If the applicable legal norms are known in advance, it is not a violation of the narrow-scope rule of law to decide cases according to principles rather than rules or economic substance rather than legal form. Less formal, more purposive forms of adjudication tend to rely more on sound judgment by judges. In a legal system with a skilled and impartial judiciary, anti-abuse rules are not inherently threatening to the rule of law. They are less desirable in polities with wide-scope rule of law deficits. When tax disputes are highly politicised and the impartiality of the tax authorities and judiciary is open to question, it may be preferable to adopt more formal methods of adjudication that rely less on abstract reasoning about tax policy and that are easier to monitor for signs of bias. Tax law methodology should be calibrated to political context. Approaches that might be best suited for politically stable polities with highly skilled impartial judiciaries might be ill-suited for other contexts.

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Ira, Tax Avoidance and Two Aspects of the Rule of Law (January 20, 2025). In Tax, Public Finance and the Rule of Law, Dominic de Cogan, Alexis Brassey and May Hen-Smith, eds. Hart Publishing, 2025., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5359348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5359348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
EWCA Civ , volume 688 , issue 7 Posted: 1982
Finance Act , volume 207 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
On the nature of secondary rules, see HLA Hart, The Concept of Law , p. 78 - 79 Posted: 1961
Tamanaha
On the Rule of Law: History, Politics, Theory Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
192
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies