Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $5
NBER Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform and the Laffer Curve

NBER Working Paper No. w34059

33 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2025 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Ana Gamarra Rondinel

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Institute: Applied Economic & Social Research; University of Melbourne - ARC Centre of Excellence for Children and Families over the Life Course

James R. Hines Jr.

University of Michigan; NBER

José Félix Sanz-Sanz

Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2025

Abstract

This paper evaluates Laffer curves produced by reforms to nonlinear income taxes, focusing on individual taxpayers. A reform puts a taxpayer on the “wrong” side of the Laffer curve if it increases their tax burden while reducing tax payments. There always exist potential reforms with this property – and in particular, tax increases restricted to high-income taxpayers are guaranteed to consign some to the wrong side of the Laffer curve. The original design of the 2024 Australian tax reform would have put 15% of the taxpaying population on the wrong side of the Laffer curve, though subsequent modifications reduced this to 5%. Standard tax progressivity measures that ignore the endogeneity of taxable income generally understate the redistributive impact of progressive tax reforms.

Institutional subscribers to the NBER working paper series, and residents of developing countries may download this paper without additional charge at www.nber.org.


Suggested Citation:

Gamarra Rondinel, Ana and Hines, James Rodger and Sanz-Sanz, José Félix, Tax Reform and the Laffer Curve (July 2025). NBER Working Paper No. w34059, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5359608
Purchase - $5
NBER Subscribers Download
63 References
Though not the first to call attention to the possibility of an inverse relationship between tax rates and tax revenues, Dupuit (1844) independently offers a cogent and surprisingly modern analysis of the Laffer curve
Wanniski
Posted: 1978
See Fullerton , ; Bender ; Holter , Krueger , Stepanchuk , Lopez-Daneri And Guner , Ventura
Saez, Slemrod and Giertz Posted: 1982
See Sanz-Sanz
Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
276
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies