Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Tax Provisions of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act

36 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Samuel A. Donaldson

Georgia State University College of Law

Date Written: July 21, 2025

Abstract

These materials summarize several of the key federal income, estate, and gift tax provisions in the OBBB Act. They focus only on the provisions set forth in Title VII of the Act, the provisions making changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, there is no discussion herein of defense spending allocations, border security measures, the phaseout of clean energy credits, or spending cuts to Medicaid, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or other federal programs. Further, these materials focus on provisions of interest to individuals and small businesses and thus do not address international tax reforms, energy tax incentive reforms, or so-called “health tax” reforms.

Keywords: Taxation, Economics, Deficit, Legislation, Revenue, Income, Estate, Trust, Policy, Law, Business

Suggested Citation:

Donaldson, Samuel A., Understanding the Tax Provisions of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (July 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5361868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5361868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
757
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
76,509
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies