Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Turn 100 Million Workers into Passive Shareholders

The Elder Law Journal, forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025 Last revised: 1 Sep 2025

Joshua Cutler

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 18, 2025

Abstract

It is widely recognized that the United States retirement system has rapidly shifted away from defined benefit pension plans and towards defined contribution plans and Individual Retirement Accounts. Less recognized is the fact that most of these retirement plans now invest in essentially the same assets: passive index funds, predominantly based on equity indexes such as the S&P 500. There is growing concern that this system could pose serious risks for the entire financial system, yet it has received no scrutiny from lawmakers and regulators, who have instead acted to foster it. Despite the massive size and importance of the retirement system, there is little understanding of how and why it has taken its current form. This article aims to understand the sources of the current retirement savings regime by analyzing for the first time the history of its development. This analysis reveals three consistent factors helping to shape the current system. First, a long-running, elite-led belief in the value of encouraging employee capital ownership; second, academic theories favoring low-cost investing in broad market indexes; and third, the influence of large financial institutions.

Keywords: Retirement Policy, Taxation, ERISA, Passive Investing, Index Funds, Qualified Accounts, IRA

Suggested Citation:

Cutler, Joshua, How to Turn 100 Million Workers into Passive Shareholders (July 18, 2025). The Elder Law Journal, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5362173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5362173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
206 References
B Scott , Feng Guernsey , Tingting Guo , Matthew Liu , Serfling
Thirty Years of Change: The Evolution of Classified Boards , volume 4 , issue 929 Posted: 2023
Sean J Griffith , Dorothy S Lund
A Mission Statement for Mutual Funds in Shareholder Litigation, 87 U. CHI. L. REV. 1149 Posted: 2020
Gelter supra note , volume 8 , p. 960 - 961
Gerald F Davis , E Han Kim
Business Ties and Proxy Voting by Mutual Funds
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
RANK
766,148
206 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies