Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Justice as Mutual Advantage in International Taxation

in Fairness and International Taxation, Ira K. Lindsay and Benita Mathew, eds. (Hart Publishing, 2025).

17 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Ira Lindsay

University of Surrey - School of Law

Date Written: January 20, 2025

Abstract

The international tax policy landscape is evolving from one in which international cooperation was limited in scope and focused on preventing double-taxation to one with much greater ambitions for limiting tax competition and allocating taxation rights between jurisdictions.  This new context calls for new approaches to fairness in international taxation.  Traditional approaches to normative analysis of international tax, such as tax neutrality principles, do not provide a unique solution for the question of how to divide tax revenue between states.  The leading theories of distributive justice in political philosophy, including both egalitarian theories and consequentialist theories, are unlikely to yield workable principles of tax fairness because they are not well-suited to contexts where agreements are negotiated by governments accountable to their own citizens.  Justice as mutual advantage, which represents one strand of the social contract tradition dating back to Thomas Hobbes and David Hume, provides a middle path between international altruism and the unbridled pursuit of self-interest.  Just rules are those that divide the gains from cooperation in a way that benefits all cooperators and provide each with a reason to support the cooperative scheme.  What is fair in international tax policy depends upon the antecedent interests of various countries, their degree of bargaining power, and the scope of potential gains from tax co-operation. Fair rules give states that uphold the rules some combination of greater tax revenue and higher economic growth than they would otherwise enjoy and allocate these gains so that no state can expect to negotiate a better deal if it undermines the rules.  Justice as mutual advantage may require that nations that otherwise might benefit from tax competition receive compensation for agreeing to rules that restrict their right to use tax incentives to attract inbound investment. It differs from more ambitious theories in permitting pre-existing inequalities in entitlements and bargaining power to influence the outcome of agreements.  Because it is parsimonious in its moral commitments, it can identify agreements that partisans of greatly differing theories of justice can agree are unjust.  Justice as mutual advantage thus tempers self-interest and facilitates cooperation without demanding a level of sacrifice that makes adoption implausible under the current institutional order.

Suggested Citation:

Lindsay, Ira, Justice as Mutual Advantage in International Taxation (January 20, 2025). in Fairness and International Taxation, Ira K. Lindsay and Benita Mathew, eds. (Hart Publishing, 2025)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5362616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5362616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Hume
A Treatise of Human Nature Posted: 1886
Leviathan Hobbes , Curley
Leviathan, with selected variants from the Latin edition of 1668 Posted: 1651
Barry
Natural Binmore , Justice
Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
166
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies