Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonising the Lacuna between Tax Policy and Implementation

13 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2025

Oluwatoniloba Omolola

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Revenue generation has been a major problem in Nigeria as the country has financed deficit budgets over the years. The reason for this is the over-reliance on oil products as its main source of revenue. Due to the ineffectiveness of petroleum products as a means of income generation, the Nigerian government capitalised on taxes which is still inefficient. According to a report released by the Judicial Effectiveness Index in 2022, Nigeria ranks 119 out of 172 countries under the heading, Income Tax Rate. This ranking shows that Nigeria has not been able to effectively capitalise on tax as a means of revenue. Hence, the crux of this study is to explore the gap between tax policy and tax implementation in Nigeria. The doctrinal approach was adopted in this research as primary sources of law like the Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act 2007 and secondary sources like textbooks, online journals, website publications as well as newspaper publications were utilized. This study found that there is a huge gap in Nigeria's tax administration system. The manuscript in conclusion asserts that active measures should be taken to effectively bridge this gap. Therefore, an effective tax collection system must be established, government wastages should be eliminated and stricter penalties for tax evasion should be put in place.

Keywords: Budget, Deficit, Nigeria, Revenue, Tax

Suggested Citation:

Omolola, Oluwatoniloba, Harmonising the Lacuna between Tax Policy and Implementation (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5363169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5363169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Nike Popoola
Nigeria's Debt Jumps by 75% in Three Months, Hits N87tn' The Punch Posted: 2023-09-15
Deborah Musa
FG Demands $81bn From Binance for Alleged Tax Evasion' The Punch Posted: 2025-02-20
Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act Posted: 1940
Massimo Pierro
What Is the Blockchain?
Computer Science and Engineering , volume 19 , issue 5 Posted: 2017-02-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
221
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies