Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Went Wrong in the Apple State Aid Case and How to Fix It - Part 2: Suggested Reforms

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2025-57

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2025-16

57 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2025 Last revised: 26 Jul 2025

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Stephen Daly

King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This Article criticizes the reasoning of the European Commission and EU courts in the Apple state aid case and proposes reforms to avoid similar failures in future tax state aid enforcement. Building on a companion article that traced the litigation, this piece argues that the Commission applied an invented, retroactive allocation method unsupported by Irish law or binding international standards. It identifies serious procedural and substantive defects, including the Commission’s use of non-binding OECD guidance developed after the contested rulings, inconsistent legal theories, and disregard for evidence about where Apple’s intellectual property was actually controlled. The Article criticizes the General Court for adopting new arguments not raised in the Commission’s Final Decision and for relying on superficial similarities between Irish law and the OECD’s Authorized OECD Approach (AOA) to justify using external standards. It also criticizes the Court of Justice for failing to discipline the overreach of the Commission and General Court.  By relying on a dubious procedural technicality, the Court reinstated the Commission’s recovery order despite prior decisions (Fiat, Amazon, Engie) that should have compelled rejection. Arguing that the Apple decision undermines Member State tax sovereignty, legal predictability, and the rule of law, the Article recommends reforms to improve procedural transparency, constrain retroactive enforcement, and restore coherence to EU state aid doctrine in tax cases. Such reforms are needed if state aid enforcement in the tax area is to serve as a legitimate constraint on Member State tax sovereignty.

Keywords: State Aid, Article 107(1) TFEU, Tax Rulings, Transfer Pricing, Arm’s-Length Principle, Authorized OECD Approach (AOA), Allocation-By-Exclusion, Apple Inc., Reference Framework, Retroactivity, Transparency and Procedural Fairness, Multinational Tax Avoidance, Administrative Discretion, Judicial Review in State Aid Cases, Legal Certainty, Rule of Law

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Ruth and Daly, Stephen, What Went Wrong in the Apple State Aid Case and How to Fix It - Part 2: Suggested Reforms (June 01, 2025). Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2025-57 , Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2025-16 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5366856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5366856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
430
RANK
368,259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies