Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 2025 update of the UN Model Tax Convention

28 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Bob Michel

Independent

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

In March 2025, the UN Tax Committee gave final approval for the 2025 update of its flagship publication, the UN Model Tax Convention.

This report provides an overview and background of the most important changes made to the UN Model (2025). The changes reflect the work of the UN Tax Committee during the past four years on various cross-border tax issues.

The UN Model Tax Convention serves as an important point of reference for countries, particularly developing countries, in their tax treaty negotiations with other countries. The changes are also a useful indicator of where international tax policy debates are heading in the future.

This report was written for and first published by the Tax Justice Network.

Keywords: United Nations, UN Tax Committee, UN Model, UN Model Convention, double tax treaties, tax treaties, OECD Model, taxation of services, taxation of international shipping, taxation of air transport, Article 8, UN Model Treaty

Suggested Citation:

Michel, Bob, The 2025 update of the UN Model Tax Convention (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5368050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5368050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
the latest version of the OECD Model Tax Convention Posted: 2017
L Millán-Narotzky , J Garcia-Bernardo , M Diakité , M Meinzer
For a more detailed analysis of the tax rate and revenue dampening dynamics of tax treaties
Tax Justice Network / ICTD Posted: 2021
Countries like Bangladesh (34 tax treaties, 90% inclusion rate) , volume 100
Philippines
Sri Lanka (46 treaties, 95% inclusion rate) and Thailand
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
RANK
302,340
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies