Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Old and New Taxpayers' Rights in the Digital Age: Supranational Convergences

International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 3

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Lorenzo Del Federico

'Gabriele d'Annunzio' University of Chieti-Pescara

Abstract

This study delineates the convergences that can be appreciated across separate although partially overlapping regulatory frameworks at a supranational level in the area of the protection of taxpayers’ rights in light of the unprecedented digital transformation that is, inter alia, reshaping the relations between taxpayers and tax administrations. Policy and legislative initiatives by international and supranational organizations as well as recent case law developments from both the ECtHR and the ECJ are in particular analyzed with the view to develop a critical reconstruction of possible evolutionary trends that may shape the future of tax relations, currently in flux.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/69q1d3

Keywords: taxpayers' rights, digital economy, tax authorities, ECJ case law, AI

Suggested Citation:

Del Federico, Lorenzo, Old and New Taxpayers' Rights in the Digital Age: Supranational Convergences. International Tax Studies (ITAXS): Vol. 8 (2025), Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370411 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/69q1d3
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
56
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies