Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Taxation of Global Value Networks: Market Power, Firm Boundaries and Excess Profits

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 72

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Svitlana Buriak

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Abstract

This book contributes to the discussion on potential solutions to allocating taxing rights in a globalized and digitalized economy by establishing and deepening the links between international tax law, company law, competition law, labour law, multinational firm theory, economics and business administration. First, the study is focused on the capabilities of international taxation to design a regulatory framework for non-equity modes of internationalization. Second, based on the illustration of inequalities in the allocation of wealth in global value networks of non-equity-related economic actors, as well as the levers of market power and dominance, the author provides a holistic overview of the substance and sources of economic rents in intellectual property (IP)-intensive digitalized global business. In addition, in light of the predominant relevance of the OECD's Pillar One, the research provides different recommendations on the ways to improve the foundation of the framework that has the concept of residual profits at its core.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2seanhf

Keywords: international taxation, allocation of taxing rights, excess profits tax, company law, competition law, labour law, business, digital economy, value creation, intellectual property, arm's length principle, MNE, Pillar 1 (OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Buriak, Svitlana, International Taxation of Global Value Networks: Market Power, Firm Boundaries and Excess Profits. IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 72, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2seanhf
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
81
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies