Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Cost of Firm-Level Political Risk: Impairing Liquidity in Corporate Bond Markets

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Yanlin Liu

The University of Adelaide, Adelaide Business School; The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance

Jiaxin Yang

Victorian Institute of Technology

Thu Phuong Pham

Curtin University; IPAG Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: July 27, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates how firm-level political risk affects corporate bond liquidity. Using a large sample of U.S. corporate bonds from 2002 to 2022, we find that higher political risk significantly reduces bond liquidity. The effect is stronger for financially distressed firms, during periods of elevated economic policy uncertainty, and under weak consumer sentiment. It persists across credit ratings but is more pronounced for non-investment-grade bonds. The impact is also greater before the Global Financial Crisis, when macroeconomic intervention was more limited. To address endogeneity, we use terrorist attacks as exogenous shocks to political risk and find consistent evidence supporting causality. These findings position firm-level political risk as a key, underexplored driver of bond market liquidity, enriching the literature on political risk, market functioning, and corporate finance.

Keywords: Corporate Bond Liquidity, Cost of Debt, Secondary Market Trading, Terrorist Attacks

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18, G32

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yanlin and Yang, Jiaxin and Pham, Thu Phuong, The Hidden Cost of Firm-Level Political Risk: Impairing Liquidity in Corporate Bond Markets (July 27, 2025). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5370745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
T Adrian , P Colla , H Song Shin
Which financial frictions? Parsing the evidence from the financial crisis of 2007 to
NBER macroeconomics annual , volume 27 , p. 159 - 214 Posted: 2009
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Terry
Using disasters to estimate the impact of uncertainty
Review of Economic Studies , volume 91 , p. 720 - 747 Posted: 2024
J Bao , J Pan , J Wang
The illiquidity of corporate bonds
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 911 - 946 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
RANK
572,233
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies