Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Answer to Aggressive Tax Planning with Intangibles: Designing Anti-Avoidance Measures that Comply with International, Trade and European Law

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 74

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Gustavo Weiss de Resende

Independent

Abstract

In contemporary business landscapes, the paradigm of success has shifted from traditional metrics of scale, such as extensive infrastructure and large workforces, to the strategic exploitation of intangible assets. This transformative trend, evident in multinational enterprises, underscores the pivotal role played by intellectual property in value creation and international tax optimization. In this context, the OECD and other international actors have on multiple occasions tried to address the alarming phenomenon of base erosion and profit shifting facilitated by multinational enterprises reallocating ownership of intangibles to low-tax jurisdictions. This book critically dives into one such aspect – namely, cross-border intra-group royalty payments – as an integral component of aggressive tax planning structures. While international organizations and public outcry have drawn attention to tax scandals involving major corporations, the author demonstrates how the response from international tax law has been largely insufficient, particularly concerning the use of intangible assets. This void has prompted some nations to enact multi- and unilateral measures to counter this specific pathway for profit shifting. Filling a significant gap in scholarly literature, this book pioneers a monographic study focused specifically on royalty payments and their role in base erosion and profit shifting. Employing a deductive-analytical methodology, it meticulously dissects legislative measures that might aid in the fight against base erosion and profit shifting in the context of intellectual property. The analysis spans a range of instruments, including controlled foreign company rules, general anti-avoidance rules and transfer pricing regulations, as well as withholding taxes and royalty deductibility barriers, also in the context of the OECD Pillar Two minimum tax. These measures are then tested against the background of their effectiveness and, more importantly, their compatibility with higher-ranking law. The author particularly endeavours to provide a normative best-practice approach for realistically resolving this issue, offering a balanced, technical solution in the ever-evolving landscape of international tax law. This comprehensive analysis contributes to ongoing discussions on global tax reform, urging a nuanced and context-sensitive approach to address the challenges posed by aggressive tax planning structures in the post-BEPS era.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1kfkk4s

Keywords: aggressive tax planning, intangibles, profit shifting, anti-avoidance, GAAR, CFC, intellectual property

Suggested Citation:

Resende, Gustavo Weiss de, An Answer to Aggressive Tax Planning with Intangibles: Designing Anti-Avoidance Measures that Comply with International, Trade and European Law. IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 74, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1kfkk4s
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
91
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies