Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spirit of International Tax Law and International Corporate Tax Reform

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 76

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Jeroen Lammers

Independent

Abstract

This book demystifies the spirit of international tax law by offering a workable definition and suggests that repurposing it from an abstract notion of fairness to concrete policy goals will strengthen the international corporate tax system. The premise of this book is the Babylonian confusion around the spirit of international tax law and the lack of comprehensive research on the topic. While most appear to believe that the spirit should be equated with the intent or purpose of the law, there are many examples of corporate taxpayers who act within the object and purpose of positive law but not in line with the broadly shared expectation of what is fair in society. This study defines the spirit of international tax law and proposes how it can contribute to making the international corporate tax system more robust through a multidisciplinary approach. The book examines the role of morality in legal philosophy, as well as how morality may affect the interpretation of legal rules. Furthermore, it considers how the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework’s work relates to the development of political morality vis-à-vis international tax. Moreover, a comprehensive longitudinal discourse analysis substantiates the analysis. It is identified that, in the public debate, the spirit of international tax law takes on three distinct meanings: (i) the purpose of the law or intention of the legislator; (ii) the evolving political morality that may not yet have crystalized in positive law; and (iii) personal moral preferences. The second meaning is deemed the best way to define the spirit of international tax law. These findings raise awareness regarding the type of arguments used in the public debate and help to assign a certain objective weight to them. Moreover, the study demonstrates that efficiency and tax revenue effects are currently the dominant policy concerns regarding changes in international tax standards, while concerns about fairness are routinely placed in the background. It is contended that this fundamental hierarchy in policy concerns effectively blocks fundamental tax reform. A repurposing of the spirit of international tax law that transforms it from an implicit and abstract notion of fairness and fiscal virtuous behaviour into explicit, concrete and ambitious policy goals of the international tax system could lift such a blockade.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3k1v4wg

Keywords: international taxation, corporate income tax, tax morale, tax system, exchange of information, harmful tax competition, BEPS Project (OECD), digital economy

Suggested Citation:

Lammers, Jeroen, The Spirit of International Tax Law and International Corporate Tax Reform. IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3k1v4wg
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies