Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compatibility of Turnover-Based Business Taxes with EU Law and WTO Law

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 73

Posted: 29 Jul 2025

Balázs Károlyi

Independent

Abstract

This book examines the compatibility of turnover-based business taxes in light of the legal framework given by primary and secondary European Union (EU) law as well as World Trade Organization (WTO) law. It is argued that a system of taxation that spreads the tax burden disproportionately potentially faces conflicts with the non-discrimination regimes under EU and WTO laws. It is particularly dubious whether such differential treatment can be justified by equity considerations such as the objective of taxation in accordance with the ability-to-pay principle when it comes to turnover taxes. Furthermore, the book highlights those interferences between the common value-added tax (VAT) system and other turnover tax systems that are undesirable and pose a threat to the proper functioning of the VAT system. Also highlighted are the complications resulting from the coexistence of EU law and WTO law. On the one hand, such complications make it challenging for Member States to devise their tax systems in a manner that is both EU and WTO law-proof; on the other hand, they entail limitations on the effect of WTO law within the EU.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vk00hx

Keywords: turnover tax, EU law, VAT, fundamental freedoms, non-discrimination

Suggested Citation:

Károlyi, Balázs, The Compatibility of Turnover-Based Business Taxes with EU Law and WTO Law. IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol: Vol. 73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5370842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3vk00hx
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies