Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Big is Slow: Tax-motivated Income Shifting and Dividend Payouts of Korean Chaebols after the Transition to a Territorial Tax System

34 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Ji Seon Yoo

Kookmin University

Date Written: July 30, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how the organizational characteristics of chaebols affect the agility of taxplanning decision-making. Using the transition from a worldwide to territorial tax system in South Korea in 2023 as a quasi-exogenous shock, the analysis shows that multinational corporations (MNCs) significantly increased tax-motivated income shifting and dividend payouts following the reform. However, among MNCs, chaebol firms were less responsive than non-chaebol firms. The results suggest that the complex and hierarchical organizational structures of chaebols hinder swift strategic adjustments in response to tax-policy changes. This study expands and diversifies the literature on the organizational characteristics of chaebols by presenting empirical evidence challenging prior findings that chaebols are always more aggressive than non-chaebols in tax avoidance.

Keywords: tax avoidance, income shifting, dividend payout, business groups, chaebols, international tax system

Suggested Citation:

Yoo, Ji Seon, When Big is Slow: Tax-motivated Income Shifting and Dividend Payouts of Korean Chaebols after the Transition to a Territorial Tax System (July 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J H Ahn , S Z A Shah , S Imam
Business group affiliation and misreporting: evidence from Korean chaebols
Accounting and Business Research , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2025
K H Bae , J K Kang , J M Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The value-relevance of earnings and book value, ownership structure, and business group affiliation: Evidence from Korean business groups
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 5-6 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
J S Baek , J K Kang , K S Park
Corporate governance and firm value: Evidence from the Korean financial crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 313 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
227
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies