Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The state as moral agent, the ethics of state tax related behaviour: a proposal for a normative framework balancing state obligations to taxpayers and the responsibilities of states to each other in international taxation

44 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Date Written: January 26, 2024

Abstract

In this paper the author discusses the status of the State as a normative or moral agent in its own right, the status of the act of taxing as a normative or moral act, and the relationship between the stae as taxor and the taxpayer as the taxed. The author then argues that there are competing normative obligations on the state, those to its fellow states and those to its taxpayers. The author rejects the anti-realist theory of property proposed by Murphy & Nagel and proposes a realist theory of tax. From this position the author builds an understandign of the obligations of the state to the taxpayer and develops a series of normative principles as to the state's behaviour to permit the act of taxing to fulfil its normative character.

Keywords: tax, philosophy, taxation, interenational taxation, oecd, normative, philosophy of tax, sovereignty, UN

Declaration of Interest

No interests to declare

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

Self-funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame, The state as moral agent, the ethics of state tax related behaviour: a proposal for a normative framework balancing state obligations to taxpayers and the responsibilities of states to each other in international taxation (January 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies