Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two-Way Tax Justice: How State and Taxpayer Rebuild Fiscal Trust

27 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: July 29, 2025

Abstract

This study examines tax justice as a two-way process of ethical reciprocity between the State and taxpayers, highlighting the relational and dynamic nature of fiscal morality. In the Brazilian context, characterized by high litigation rates, mutual distrust, and normative complexity, the paper argues that the effectiveness of the tax system depends not only on legal enforcement but also on perceived legitimacy. It claims that tax justice arises from an ethical pact, in which the State exercises taxation with proportionality, transparency, and respect for fundamental rights, and taxpayers respond with voluntary compliance and civic awareness. The analysis is based on interdisciplinary theoretical research, grounded in constitutional law, public ethics, fiscal psychology, and social contract theory. Empirical evidence and international experiences-such as cooperative compliance models-are incorporated, as well as classical and contemporary reflections on institutional trust, selective morality, and social capital. The study finds that the morality of the Tax Administration manifests in impartiality, legal certainty, and accountability, while taxpayer morality is linked to perceptions of fairness, civic duty, and rejection of tax avoidance and evasion. It concludes that tax justice is unattainable when either party fails ethically and that overcoming the culture of tax evasion and reactive fiscal behavior requires rebuilding mutual trust. In this sense, the article proposes a model of tax justice as an ethicalinstitutional balance, in which the State and society share responsibilities and commitments in favor of a fairer, more legitimate, and democratic tax system.

Keywords: Tax justice, Morality, Tax compliance, Institutional trust, Social contract

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Two-Way Tax Justice: How State and Taxpayer Rebuild Fiscal Trust (July 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Marcela Bezerra , Silva
Causas da inadimplência tributária no Brasil: a adequação das políticas públicas de combate no âmbito da União. Dissertação (Mestrado em Políticas Públicas) -FGV EBAPE Posted: 2020
Isadora Beatriz Carlos , Teixeira
Moralidade tributária como limite ao poder de tributar Posted: 2024
Carla Cazella , Fabiana
Educação fiscal e cidadania: uma atividade colaborativa entre instituições públicas e privadas no município de Chapecó/SC. CAFI -Revista do Curso de Ciências Contábeis , volume 4 , p. 215 - 237 Posted: 2021-07
Lars P Feld , Frey , S Bruno
Trust breeds trust: how taxpayers are treated
Economics of Governance , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 99 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies