Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Everything changes…everything stays the same; understanding the concept of sovereignty in the context of international taxation and theory. 

36 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Date Written: January 26, 2024

Abstract

In this article, the author  will discuss the predominate theory of sovereignty which dominates the intellectual landscape at the moment, that sovereignty has changed in the last century from what is known as “Westphalian” sovereignty, which is considered to be a form of sovereignty in which jurisdictions act in isolation to each other, and has become something which may be described as “Sovereignty as Responsibility”. Sovereignty as Responsibility is articulated by Peter Dietsch in his book “Catching Capital” (2015). In this article, it will argue that Dietsch’s articulation of Sovereignty as Responsibility as a distinct break from the previous form of “Westphalian” sovereignty is flawed in that the understanding he has of Westphalian sovereignty does not reflect a correct understanding of the position prior to the twentieth Century, and that Dietsch's articulation of Sovereignty as Responsibility is not a functioning analysis. Instead, the author will argue that sovereignty has retained its characteristics throughout and, that in fact, 
it is the economic and international investment environment which has changed.  

Keywords: sovereignty

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

Self Funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame,
Everything changes…everything stays the same; understanding the concept of sovereignty in the context of international taxation and theory. 
(January 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Allison Christians , Laurens Van Apeldoorn
The OECD Inclusive Framework
Bulletin for International Taxation , issue 3 , p. 226 - 233 Posted: 2018
Stephen D Krasner
Pervasive Not Perverse: Semi-Sovereigns as the Global Norm
Cornell International Law Journal , volume 30 Posted: 1997
Georg Nolte
Sovereignty as Responsibility?
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting , p. 389 - 392
Andreas Osiander
Sovereignty, International Relations and the Westphalian Myth
International Organisation , volume 55 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
134
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies