Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SPAIN IS REAL AND CANNOT BE IGNORED: the developemnt of tax relations between Gibraltar and its largest neighbour

On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I, Jackson G (ed) Spiramus 2024

26 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Isaac Levy

Hassans International Law Firm

Date Written: June 30, 2024

Abstract

In this chapter the authors discuss the consequences for Gibraltar's taxation system of having a large neighbour which is easily accesbile and an open border. Specifically considering the provisions of the Income Tax Acts 1952, 2010 and the later International Agreement on Taxation and the Protection of Financial Interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Norther Ireland. 

Keywords: spain, gibraltar, Taxation, Tax, International Tax, United Kingdom, DTT, DTA, Double Tax Treaty

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

Self Funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Levy, Isaac, SPAIN IS REAL AND CANNOT BE IGNORED: the developemnt of tax relations between Gibraltar and its largest neighbour (June 30, 2024). On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I, Jackson G (ed) Spiramus 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies