Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
YOU'RE NOT IN THE UK NOW The principle of a distinct jurisdiction: The EU and the development of Gibraltar Law as a thing unto itself

On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I, Jackson G (ed) Spiramus 2024

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 30 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Isaac Levy

Hassans International Law Firm

Date Written: June 10, 2024

Abstract

In this chapter the authors discuss the development and recognition of Gibraltar as a separate jurisdiction from the UNited Kingdom, specifically through the interaction of Gibraltar and the EU and various state aid challenges to Gibraltar's autonomy from the UK.

Keywords: Gibraltar, Spain, Tax, International Tax, UK, Commonwealth, EU, State Aid

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

Self funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Levy, Isaac, YOU'RE NOT IN THE UK NOW The principle of a distinct jurisdiction: The EU and the development of Gibraltar Law as a thing unto itself (June 10, 2024). On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I, Jackson G (ed) Spiramus 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5371854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5371854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
84
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies