Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FORM GIVES NO BENEFIT The Principle of Tax Neutrality in Administrative Matters

On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I Jackson G (ed) Spiramus Press (2024)

14 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2025 Last revised: 30 Jul 2025

Grahame Jackson

Hassans International Law Firm

Ivan Gomez

Hassans International Law Firm

Caroline Lane

Hassans International Law Firm

Date Written: June 01, 2024

Abstract

The aim of a tax neutral system is that any decisions made by the taxpayer should be made on their economic strengths rather than on any potential tax incentive or disincentive. This chapter explores the theory behind tax neutrality and its benefits, the key features of a neutral tax system and its challenges in implementing them. The chapter discusses how the concept of tax neutrality applies to Gibraltar's tax system and whether its tax system is effective in achieving neutrality.

Keywords: tax, taxation, Gibraltar, neutrality, CEN, CIN

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

Self funded

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Grahame and Gomez, Ivan and Lane, Caroline, FORM GIVES NO BENEFIT The Principle of Tax Neutrality in Administrative Matters (June 01, 2024). On the Principles of Gibraltar Taxation, Levy, I Jackson G (ed) Spiramus Press (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5372284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5372284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
79
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies