Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decoding Deductions

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 558

University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-9

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Leandra Lederman

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Sarah B. Lawsky

University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

This Article provides new insights into the federal income tax deductions available to individuals. First, after organizing individuals' deductions into the familiar categories of expenses versus losses and three types of activities that individuals engage in, the Article shows the advantages of bifurcating the standard losses category. Second, it focuses on limitations that the Internal Revenue Code (Code) imposes on deductions. It identifies two distinct types of "separate limitations" the Code uses, and it uncovers important patterns in how the Code treats disallowed amounts. Third, although the federal income tax is generally described as using annual accounting, the Article shows that the categories that individuals' deductions fall into map neatly onto annual, transactional, and lifetime-esque accounting, with limited and revealing exceptions. 

JEL Classification: K34, L26, H24

Suggested Citation:

Lederman, Leandra and Lawsky, Sarah B., Decoding Deductions (August 01, 2025). Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 558, University of Illinois College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25-9, University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5376309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5376309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Id
§ 170(a) (permitting deduction of charitable contribution payments), (b)(1) (providing percentage limitations for individuals)
Section 172 has a hybrid nature itself, both explicitly permitting (and limiting) a deduction, and also serving as a way that losses are carried forward. It is not particularly unusual in its deductionpermitting capacity in limiting the deduction to a percentage of a base , volume 113
Daniel Hemel
Phaseouts, 77 TAX L. REV , volume 53 Posted: 2023
Id
Note, however, that Pairing Limitations may include Carrying disallowed amounts to other tax years, while provisions formally drafted as phase-ins do not. (The main provisions with phase-ins are not deductions but the earned income tax credit and the child tax credit. Lawrence Zelenak, Complex Tax Legislation in The Turbotax Era, 1 COLUM
J. TAX L , volume 91 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
RANK
429,779
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies