Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recoding the tax system -Toward a Collaborative Digital Infrastructure

23 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Jan Winterhalter

University Leipzig; Weizenbaum Institute Berlin

Date Written: August 04, 2025

Abstract

Drawing on Pahlka's Re-Coding America, this article analyzes structural reasons for the frequent failure of public-sector IT projects, with a focus on tax administration. Combining theory and practice, it outlines a vision for a cloud-based, inter-agency investigative platform that facilitates crossjurisdictional collaboration and offers application-oriented solutions through shared access to data, methods, and resources.

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no financial or personal conflicts of interest that could have influenced the research, analysis, or conclusions presented in this article. The views expressed are solely those of the author and do not reflect the positions of any affiliated institutions or organizations.

Suggested Citation:

Winterhalter, Jan, Recoding the tax system -Toward a Collaborative Digital Infrastructure (August 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Schaebs
The Digital Transformation of the German Tax Administration
Schaebs
Lack of digitization in the tax administration | Taxes | Haufe
Konsens
Koordinierte neue Software-Entwicklung der Steuerverwaltung) seeks to harmonize software development, improve data consistency, and reduce duplication across jurisdictions
Cf , Feldhaus
Die Finanzverwaltung und ihre Algorithmen , p. 44 - 55 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
192
RANK
864,731
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies