Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Complexity and Firm Value

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 201

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025 - 10

48 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Anna-Sophie Braun

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Reinald Koch

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Caren Sureth-Sloane

Paderborn University; Vienna University of Economics and Business; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: July 22, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the effect of tax complexity on the market value of publicly traded firms. Using firm-level measures of tax complexity, we find that a one standard deviation increase in tax complexity—comparable in magnitude to the rise following the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act—is associated with a 2.6% decline in Tobin’s Q. The effect is particularly pronounced for complexity arising from anti-avoidance regulations and post-filing procedures. The negative valuation effect is more substantial for firms with limited opportunities for international profit shifting, weak governance, or low internal information quality. Further analyses reveal that tax system complexity is associated with a reduced growth potential of firms and less R&D and thus negative real responses that go beyond negative investment effects. Overall, our findings provide novel evidence of the economic costs of tax complexity and contribute to the debate on the design of efficient and equitable tax systems.  

Keywords: tax complexity, tax avoidance, firm value, tax code complexity, tax framework complexity, cost of complexity

JEL Classification: M12, H26, H25, H32

Suggested Citation:

Braun, Anna-Sophie and Koch, Reinald and Sureth-Sloane, Caren, Tax Complexity and Firm Value (July 22, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 201, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2025 - 10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
H Amberger , J Gallemore , J Wilde
Corporate Tax System Complexity and Investment
Posted: 2025
M Arena , B Wang , R Yang
Securities Litigation and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Corporate Finance. Advance online publication Posted: 2021
E Asen
Survey Shows Growing Tax Complexity for Multinationals Posted: 2021
R Baker , R J Limmack
Firm Size, Monthly Seasonalities and Tax-Loss Selling: Further Evidence from the UK. The British Accounting Review Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
RANK
663,174
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies