Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Waxing and Waning of Administrative Tax Assistance

17 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Bob Michel

Independent

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper analyzes countries' real commitment to administrative tax assistance under the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (MAAC). The authors find that despite the MAAC's growing number of signatories, its effectiveness is undermined by countries using reservations to opt out of key provisions.

The analysis highlights several "cracks" in the MAAC's framework. First, the convention does not establish a universal legal ground for assisting in the collection of foreign tax debts, with 48% of assessed countries having full reservations. The study notes that 75% of the top 20 financial secrecy jurisdictions use this reservation, highlighting it as a characteristic of a tax haven. Second, the MAAC's exchange of information is not universal, as countries can opt out of exchanging information on "non-compulsory taxes," such as those on wealth or digital services. This is especially problematic for enforcing digital services taxes, as major digital hubs like the United States have opted out of such provisions.

Finally, the paper reveals a low and inconsistent uptake of the new Multilateral Competent Authority Agreements (MCAAs) for automatic exchanges of information on crypto assets and digital platforms, leading to a "patchwork of country commitments." The authors conclude that these flaws make the MAAC poorly equipped to address modern tax evasion and avoidance challenges, and they suggest that the ongoing negotiations for a United Nations Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation (UNFCITC) present a crucial opportunity to create a truly universal and effective regime for administrative tax assistance.

Keywords: administrative assistance in tax matters, collection of foreign tax debts, mutual administrative assistance, exchange of information, automatic exchange of information, UNFCITC, MAAC, OECD/Council of Europe, assistance in the collection of foreign tax debts, revenue rule

Suggested Citation:

Michel, Bob, The Waxing and Waning of Administrative Tax Assistance (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5378213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5378213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Some additional African and South American countries are also included
For more on the rolling update approach to the FSI, see : Moran Harari and Markus Meinzer
Tax Justice Network Blog Posted: 2023-06-13
Information Exchange upon Request' and 'International Legal Cooperation'. For more information on indicators, data and ranking of the FSI 2025
For the text of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters as amended by the 2010 Protocol (MAAC)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies