Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Education and Academic Sustainability: a SWOT Analysis of Strategic Management in Accounting and Tax Support Centers (NAF)

22 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Lennilton Viana Leal

Universidade Federal do Piauí (UFPI)

Date Written: August 06, 2025

Abstract

This study aims to identify strategic factors related to the management and sustainability of the Accounting and Tax Support Center (NAF), a Brazilian tax education initiative developed by the Federal Revenue Service in partnership with Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). The qualitative methodology adopted included triangulation of methods with documentary research of official reports (2021-2024), semi-structured interviews with the national coordination, and questionnaires applied to local coordinators, students, and taxpayers served by the centers. The main results highlight as strengths the solid institutional partnership between the Federal Revenue Service and HEIs, which maintains 493 active centers, and the successful integration of theory and practice, with 345,869 cases handled annually. However, the study identified significant weaknesses, such as excessive dependence on student volunteer work and the geographical concentration of services in a few regions. Among the opportunities, we highlight the increase in demand for accounting services for Individual Microentrepreneurs (28% growth in three years) and the inclusion of tax education in the National Common Core Curriculum. On the other hand, threats such as the financial instability of partner institutions and deficiencies in post-pandemic technological infrastructure may compromise the future sustainability of the project. The study offers important strategic and theoretical contributions, highlighting objective guidelines for expanding the social impact and operational and financial sustainability of NAF at the national level.

Keywords: Tax Education, Strategic Management, University Extension, Tax Citizenship, SWOT Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Viana Leal, Lennilton, Tax Education and Academic Sustainability: a SWOT Analysis of Strategic Management in Accounting and Tax Support Centers (NAF) (August 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5382180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5382180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M A Akims
Tax Education and Tax Compliance: A Review of Literature
Journal of Economics Posted: 2023
H I Ansoff
Corporate strategy: An analytic approach to business policy for growth and expansion Posted: 1965
S Asista , M S Setyowati
Online Tax System Implementation Through Digitalization Of Tax Administration On Cost And Benefit
International Journal Posted: 2022
C M Barbosa , V C F D O Freire
Fiscal education and citizenship: Integrative literature review from 2005 to 2020
Brazilian Journal of Development , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 4450 - 4471 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
89
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Latin American Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies