Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inheritance Taxation In Portugal: Rules Of Jurisdiction And Principles Of Taxation

15 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2025

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: August 05, 2025

Abstract

In 2004 Portugal abolished its traditional system of inheritance taxes, instead levying a territorial Stamp Duty (« Imposto do Selo »), applied solely to the assets situated within the Portuguese territory. This study offers a critical analysis of the Portuguese inheritance taxation model and clarifies its specific territorial scope, generous exemptions with respect to direct descendants, and considerations for estate planning in practice. The focus is on expatriates and international asset holders with double taxation risks and forced heirship rules within European Union regulatory environment. Recent legislative updates, especially around the taxation of digital assets and also tightening of global tax transparency, are analyzed to provide insights on outlook and potential estate planning opportunities that the Portuguese regime provides.

Keywords: Inheritance taxation, Stamp Duty, Portugal, estate planning, forced heirship, expatriates

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Inheritance Taxation In Portugal: Rules Of Jurisdiction And Principles Of Taxation (August 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5382130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5382130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Portuguese Inheritance Law: Everything You Need to Know
Highlights the practical advantages of writing a will in Portugal for foreigners Posted: 2025-02
International Estate Planning Guide: Portugal
International Bar Association Publication Posted: 2023
Nº 650/2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of succession (« EU Succession Regulation »)
Official Journal of the EU Posted: 2012
International Estate Planning Guide: Portugal
International Bar Association Publication Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,103
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies