Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Athletic Performance and State Tax Rates: Why NBA Players Perform Worse in High-Tax States

35 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Michael Conklin

Texas A&M University School of Law

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

This Article presents the results of a novel empirical study measuring the impact of state income tax rates on professional athletic performance. While prior scholarship established that state tax burdens influence where athletes choose to play and the financial dynamics of team rosters, this groundbreaking study provides a significant advancement in the field by demonstrating a statistically significant relationship between state tax rates and athletic performance. The implications of this groundbreaking result are far reaching, applying to the cognitive anchoring heuristic, recent changes to state and local tax (SALT tax) deductions, and even racial bias. Furthermore, this result is relevant in corporate America where the rise of remote work has increased the ability of workers to relocate to more tax-friendly states.

By creating a novel framework to measure athlete performance in isolation from the effects of opposing players, this study will hopefully serve as a powerful catalyst to spark future research in this emerging field. The findings have broader implications for discussions of competitive balance in professional sports, the behavioral effects of tax policy, and the psychological dimensions of high-income taxation. By demonstrating that tax policy can influence not only financial decisions but also individual performance, this research expands the conceptual reach of tax law and invites further interdisciplinary inquiry.

Keywords: Tax policy, psychology, incentives, athletes, tax rates, performance

Suggested Citation:

Conklin, Michael, Athletic Performance and State Tax Rates: Why NBA Players Perform Worse in High-Tax States (August 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5385384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5385384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Marc A Janover , C Peter , Terry
Relationships Between Pre-Competition Mood and Swimming Performance: Test of a Conceptual Model with an Emphasis on Depressed Mood
AUSTRALIAN J. PSYCH , volume 54 Posted: 2002
Terry Lane , Beedie & Stevens
Francesco Giancamilli
When the Going Gets Tough, What Happens to Quiet Eye? The Role of Time Pressure and Performance Pressure During Basketball Free Throws, 58 PSYCH
SPORT & EXERCISE , volume 1 Posted: 2022
Mattie Toma
finding that NBA players were 5.81 percent less likely to make a free throw in the final 30 seconds of a game and WNBA players were 3.11 percent less likely to make a free throw in the final 30 seconds of a game)
J. SPORTS ECON , volume 18 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
143
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies