Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Playbook of Venture Capital and Private Equity





The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, Palgrave Macmillan, Springer Nature.

8 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025 Last revised: 2 Sep 2025

Domenico Imparato

University of Hamburg - Institute of Law and Economics; University of California, Berkeley; University of Chicago

Date Written: May 09, 2025

Abstract

In the domains of Venture Capital (VC) and Private Equity (PE), tax strategies are instrumental in shaping investment decisions and optimizing returns. While VC and PE’s capital and commercial strategies may, and do, differ to suit diverse business objectives, commonalities in their fund and investment corporate structures entail that both industries share fundamental tax considerations, which are of utmost importance for fund managers and investors navigating complex financial transactions across jurisdictions. This article focuses on these tax considerations and related tax planning strategies, collectively referred to as the “tax playbook” of VC and PE, shedding light on key areas with the potential to drive decision-making processes in both industries.

Keywords: Earnings, management fees, Exit options, Funds, Income tax and capital gains taxation, Pass-through taxation, Private equity, Tax planning strategies, Venture capital, Investment Funds, Tax Playbook, Investment Planning, Fund Formation, Financing System, Tax Incentives, Business Founders, Fee Arrangements, Carried Interest

Suggested Citation:

Imparato, Domenico, The Tax Playbook of Venture Capital and Private Equity (May 09, 2025).

, The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, Palgrave Macmillan, Springer Nature., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5386102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5386102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
196
RANK
880,951
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies