Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hiring Biases Fostered Under the Code

187 Tax Notes Federal 2273 (2025)

13 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2025 Last revised: 29 Aug 2025

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: June 23, 2025

Abstract

In making employment hiring decisions, employers traditionally consider a multitude of factors, such as candidates’ knowledge, skills, training, education, credentials, and the like. In the post-pandemic landscape, with the growing desire for remote work, employers are now thinking more critically about how employment decisions may affect nexus and related issues for state and local taxes, workers’ compensation, and other compliance burdens. Indeed, carefully weighing the tax and compliance burdens associated with hiring a particular candidate may be outcome-determinative in the selection process.

It’s therefore axiomatic that, everything else being equal, if a particular job candidate would come with lower tax and compliance burdens, that candidate would be more attractive than those who would come with higher burdens. And it may well be that although a particular candidate is stronger in certain areas, any relative marginal increase in strengths is outweighed by the added marginal tax and compliance burden, thereby distorting company-level decision-making and therefore, in the aggregate, the labor market generally.

From an employer’s perspective, one might think that the same tax burden would apply to all job candidates — particularly if they are physically located in the same office or work location. But when it comes to employment taxes, that proposition does not hold true. Nonresident aliens who work in the United States using certain visas, such as F-1 and M-1 visas (student visas), receive a carveout from the definition of employment under the IRC1 such that both they and their employers are exempt from making employment tax payments. The economic implications associated with this exemption are vast and far-reaching. Because of the absence of employment tax obligations, individuals holding these student visas immediately become more attractive job candidates. Consequently, U.S.-based employers have an incentive to hire student visa holders instead of U.S. citizens and residents. Another issue associated with the foregoing labor problem is that, as a result of the student visa employment tax exemption, those dollars are not being paid into the Social Security trust fund, whose asset reserves are projected to be depleted by 2033. 

The public policy question is therefore whether it is prudent to institute tax reform measures that would level the employment playing field between and among U.S. citizens, resident taxpayers, and NRAs and, at the same time, promote Social Security solvency. Our analysis answers that question in the affirmative.

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay and Todd, Timothy M., Hiring Biases Fostered Under the Code (June 23, 2025). 187 Tax Notes Federal 2273 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5390508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5390508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
94
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies