Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Transparency and Multinational Tax Compliance in the Digital Sector: Evidence from Southeast Asia

15 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2025

Qosim -. -

Airlangga University

Heru Tjaraka

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Santi Novita

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of transfer pricing (TP) transparency on the tax compliance of multinational enterprises (MNEs) in the digital sector, using evidence from 520 firm-year observations of 112 MNEs operating in six Southeast Asian countries between 2016 and 2023. effective tax rate (ETR) and cash ETR, and tax administration capacity is captured using TADAT and World Bank Paying Taxes scores. Employing fixed-effects panel regressions with robust clustered standard errors and robustness checks-including lagged variables, alternative proxies, and an instrumental variable approach-the results reveal a positive and significant association between TP transparency and tax compliance, with the effect being stronger in jurisdictions with higher administrative capacity. The findings highlight that transparency, when coupled with effective enforcement, can reduce opportunities for tax avoidance in the digital economy, contributing novel evidence from an emerging-market regional context, integrating sector-specific digital economy characteristics, and highlighting the pivotal role of institutional capacity for policymakers seeking to align ASEAN tax governance with OECD standards.

Keywords: Keywords: Transfer pricing transparency, tax compliance, digital economy, Southeast Asia, multinational enterprises, tax administration capacity.

Suggested Citation:

-, Qosim -. and Tjaraka, Heru and Novita, Santi, Transfer Pricing Transparency and Multinational Tax Compliance in the Digital Sector: Evidence from Southeast Asia. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5393550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5393550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S Beer , R De Mooij , L Liu
International corporate tax avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
Journal of Economic Surveys , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 660 - 688 Posted: 2020
D Bunn , E Asen , C Enache
Digital taxation around the world
Tax Foundation Posted: 2022
Y Cao , Q Liang , H Zeng
Peer effects in corporate social responsibility: Evidence from China
Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 57 Posted: 2019
H B Christensen , E Floyd , L Y Liu , M Maffett
The real effects of mandated information on social responsibility in business
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
158
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies