Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Economic Analysis of Joint Tax Audits

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 208

57 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2025 Last revised: 20 Aug 2025

Daniel Dyck

Paderborn University; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Thomas Kourouxous

University of Graz

Johannes Lorenz

University of Regensburg; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

We investigate how tax authorities use joint tax audits as a coordinated enforcement tool in cross-border transactions of a multinational firm. Joint tax audits aim to resolve potential tax disputes early, before such disputes escalate into costly and time-consuming resolution procedures that may not fully eliminate double taxation. Employing a game-theoretic model, we identify settings in which we expect joint audits to occur and investigate their effect on the firm's expected tax payments and tax audit efficiency. We find that the occurrence of joint audits critically depends on the double taxation risk in the absence of joint audits. Unless tax rules are consistently applied, joint audits can occur more often when this risk is higher. The reason is that the firm changes its income-shifting strategy to reduce its expected tax payments, and thereby also enables tax authorities to better target tax disputes via joint audits that would otherwise escalate. However, we identify conditions under which joint audits are then detrimental to tax audit efficiency, particularly when the firm prefers them most. Our results imply that cost-sharing arrangements for joint audits should be tailored to the level of double taxation risk, with firm involvement having the potential to improve efficiency when this risk is high.

Keywords: joint tax audits, double taxation, dispute prevention, income shifting

JEL Classification: H26, H87, F23, M42, C72

Suggested Citation:

Dyck, Daniel and Kourouxous, Thomas and Lorenz, Johannes, An Economic Analysis of Joint Tax Audits (August 18, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 208, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5398645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5398645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
H Biehl , C Bleibtreu , U Stefani
Effects of Joint Audits on Audit Quality and Audit Costs: A Game-Theoretical Explanation for Contradictory Empirical Results
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2022
K Blaufus , J Bock , B Peuthert , A N Schwäbe
The Effect of Individual Tax Auditor Characteristics on Tax Audit Efficiency -Implications for Auditor Training and Allocation
Journal of the American Taxation Association, forthcoming , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2025
K Blaufus , J Reineke , I Trenn
Perceived Tax Audit Aggressiveness, Tax Control Frameworks and Tax Planning: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Business Economics , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 509 - 557 Posted: 2023
K Blaufus , J R Schöndube , S Wielenberg
Information Sharing between Tax and Statutory Auditors: Implications for Tax Audit Efficiency
European Accounting Review , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 545 - 568 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
164
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies