Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supreme Court of India Delineates Principles to Determine Fixed Place Permanent Establishment: Warning Bells for Foreign Law Firms Intending to Set Shop in India?

12 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2025

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: August 20, 2025

Abstract

Permanent establishment has been a core conceptual foundation of international tax policy and law for many decades. The contours of the concept and its implications have been discussed, debated and dissected across jurisdictions for long. The judicial review of the concept, however, continues to add life and breath in the contemporary appreciation of the concept of permanent establishment notwithstanding its long incumbency in the international tax regime. 

In a recent decision [Hyatt International] the Supreme Court of India has revisited the concept of ‘fixed place’. The decision comes at a critical juncture given that the attempts for progressive expansion of international tax law (under the two pillar umbrella) have reached a stalemate and thus there is pressure to invoke the existing rules to address the contemporary economic developments. 

This article sketches the past and present of fixed place permanent establishment concept and seeks to extrapolate its likely ramifications in context of an allied development wherein foreign lawyers and law firms have been permitted to operate in India and carry out their economic activities therein.

Keywords: Permanent Establishment, Fixed Place PE, International Taxation, Foreign Law Firms

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, Supreme Court of India Delineates Principles to Determine Fixed Place Permanent Establishment: Warning Bells for Foreign Law Firms Intending to Set Shop in India? (August 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5399562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5399562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies