Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Tax Compliance Among the Clients of Tax Preparers

17 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2025

Julia Brown

University of Maryland

Sebastian Jilke

McCourt School of Public Policy; Georgetown University

David Schwegman

American University

Mattie Toma

University of Warwick

Mary Clair Turner

Georgetown University

Abstract

Faced with the complexity of the U.S. tax system, many taxpayers use tax preparers to complete their returns. These taxpayers file a disproportionate share of tax returns that overclaim refundable tax credits. We report on a randomized evaluation testing the efficacy of two versions of a letter sent by the Internal Revenue Service to taxpayers who used a preparer who likely made errors on their returns and filed a large number of returns containing probable filing errors, such as overclaiming tax credits. Both versions improve voluntary tax compliance, increasing the likelihood that recipients change their filing method by 19% and generating taxpayer savings of approximately $15.2 million. Sending the letters induced a large spillover effect on taxpayers who were not sent a letter but who used a tax preparer who had other clients sent letters, equaling approximately 40% of the size of the main effect of the letter.

Keywords: Tax Compliance, Tax Credits, Tax Preparers, Field Experiment, Improper Payments

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Julia and Jilke, Sebastian and Schwegman, David and Toma, Mattie and Turner, Mary Clair, Improving Tax Compliance Among the Clients of Tax Preparers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5401562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5401562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Michael G Allingham , Agnar Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Michael S Barr , Jane K Dokko
Third-Party Tax Administration: The Case of Lowand Moderate-Income Households
Journal of Empirical Legal Studies , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 963 - 987 Posted: 2008
Saurabh Bhargava , Dayanand Manoli
Psychological frictions and the incomplete take-up of social benefits: Evidence from an IRS field experiment
American Economic Review , volume 105 , issue 11 , p. 3489 - 3529 Posted: 2015
William C Boning , John Guyton , Ronald Hodge , Joel Slemrod
Heard it through the Grapevine: The Direct and Network Effects of a Tax Enforcement Field Experiment on Firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 190 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
87
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies