Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Legal Analysis of Revenue Distribution Between the States

16 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2025

Shalini Kumari

Alliance University

Date Written: June 20, 2025

Abstract

The Goods and Services Tax that was introduced in India in 2017 actually went on to enable a revolutionary shift in the indirect taxation regime in the nation by consolidating a chain of state and central taxes into one system. GST is a seminal reform in the tax regime of India, altering the very essence of the Centre-State relationship. This single tax system is intended to abolish  cascading taxation effects, in addition to maintaining free flows of goods and services betweenstate boundaries. In this connection, determining who receives how much with the introduction of GST has been a topic of much discussion; queries have been raised regarding revenues shared between the Centre and the States. The legal framework of the GST is dealt with in the paper. It critically examines its implications for Indian federalism in light of comparable tax systems in the other federations, particularly in Australia and Canada. Performance and implications of revenue sharing devices towards financial autonomy of states in the Indian federal system are also examined.

The major problems that arise through this analysis are less fiscal independence of States primarily owing to centralizing the administration via GST and the postponement in the payment of compensation generating tensions in Centre-State relationships. This paper visualizes reforms in India's GST regime in the directions of more balanced centralization and State autonomy, guided by an international approach. Finally, while GST has established India's economic integration, long-term success requires additional steps to address the issues of the State governments and strengthen cooperative federalism.

Keywords: GST, Revenue, Federalism, Federal Structure

Suggested Citation:

Kumari, Shalini, A Comparative Legal Analysis of Revenue Distribution Between the States (June 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5403337 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5403337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
96
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies