Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nordcurrent Group: Interpretation of the Anti-abuse Provision in the Parent Subsidiary Directive 
Opinion Statement ECJ-TF 2/2025 on the Decision of the CJEU of 03 April 2025 in Case C-228/24, Nordcurrent Group UAB

CFE Europe Tax Advisers

6 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2025

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Georg Kofler

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Francisco Alfredo Garcia Prats

Universitat de València

Werner C. Haslehner

Universite du Luxembourg

Eric Kemmeren

Tilburg Law School; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Michael Lang

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christiana HJI Panayi

Queen Mary University of London, School of Law

Stella Raventos-Calvo

Asociación Española de Asesores Fiscales (AEDAF)

Isabelle Richelle

HEC-Management School of the University of Liège

Alexander Rust

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: August 27, 2025

Abstract

This is an Opinion Statement prepared by the CFE ECJ Task Force on the Nordcurrent group UAB case (hereinafter: the "Nordcurrent Case"), in which the Court of Justice of the EU (Sixth Chamber) delivered its decision on 03 April 2025. The judgment clarifies the CJEU’s understanding of the notion of abuse in tax law. It follows up on its anti-abuse jurisprudence, for instance in the Danish cases, Cadbury Schweppes, Eqiom SAS, and Deister Holding AG and Juhler Holding A/S. The CJEU holds that the notion of abuse requires both an objective element – namely the existence of a non-genuine arrangement – and a subjective element – namely the intention to obtain a tax advantage which defeats the object or purpose of the directive. For the existence of a non-genuine arrangement and of the tax advantage all facts and circumstances have to be taken into account. It is not sufficient to analyse the situation at the moment the dividends are distributed. To the contrary a wider time horizon has to be taken into account. Regarding the tax advantage it does not suffice to take a look at the participation exemption in isolation. The overall tax burden of the investment has to be taken into consideration.  This Opinion Statement seeks to explain and analyse the CJEU's reasoning with regard to the existence of a nongenuine arrangement and the subjective element of the intention to obtain a tax advantage which defeats the object or purpose of the directive.  

Suggested Citation:

Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and Kofler, Georg and Garcia Prats, Francisco Alfredo and Haslehner, Werner Christof and Kemmeren, Eric and Lang, Michael and HJI Panayi, Christiana and Raventos-Calvo, Stella and Richelle, Isabelle and Rust, Alexander, Nordcurrent Group: Interpretation of the Anti-abuse Provision in the Parent Subsidiary Directive 
Opinion Statement ECJ-TF 2/2025 on the Decision of the CJEU of 03 April 2025 in Case C-228/24, Nordcurrent Group UAB
(August 27, 2025). CFE Europe Tax Advisers, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5409026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5409026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies