Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamentals of Personal Income Taxation

P. Pistone et al., Fundamentals of Personal Income Taxation (IBFD 2025), Books IBFD, https://doi.org/10.59403/j170rr. Sample reproduced with kind permission from IBFD.

36 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025 Last revised: 12 Oct 2025

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Jennifer Roeleveld

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Joanna Wheeler

IBFD

Craig West

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); University of Cape Town

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Sergio Messina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Date Written: July 31, 2025

Abstract

This comprehensive primer delves into the legal intricacies of personal income taxation, offeringa globally relevant perspective on a subject central to modern tax law and policy. With the same rigorous methodology as its predecessor, Fundamentals of Taxation: An Introduction to Tax Policy, Tax Law and Tax Administration, this book unpacks the complexities of personal income tax without anchoring itself to the specifics of any single tax system.

Designed for a diverse audience – including university students, legal professionals and curious learners – it provides a thorough and systematic analysis of the core issues and challenges surrounding personal income taxation. From understanding who is taxed and what is taxed to exploring crossborder implications and special tax regimes, each chapter builds upon the last to create a cohesive and logical journey through the subject.

The twelve chapters explore: the historical content and principles of personal income taxation (Chapter 1), identifying taxable persons (Chapter 2), residence and source-based taxation (Chapter 3), timing issues (Chapter 4), determining the taxable base and income categories (Chapter 5), tax rates (Chapter 6), procedural aspects (Chapter 7), cross-border taxation dynamics (Chapter 8), taxes on capital (Chapter 9), social security contributions (Chapter 10), tax planning, avoidance and evasion (Chapter 11) and special tax regimes for individuals (Chapter 12).

In today’s globalized world where tax systems influence individual mobility and international cooperation, this book fosters a common understanding of the legal principles of personal income taxation. 

Keywords: , income taxation, Personal Income Taxation, Corporate income Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Roeleveld, Jennifer and Hattingh, Johann and Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and Wheeler, Joanna and West, Craig and Turina, Alessandro and Lazarov, Ivan and Messina, Sergio, Fundamentals of Personal Income Taxation (July 31, 2025). P. Pistone et al., Fundamentals of Personal Income Taxation (IBFD 2025), Books IBFD, https://doi.org/10.59403/j170rr. Sample reproduced with kind permission from IBFD., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5411924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5411924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Exchange of information upon request and spontaneous exchange of information 11.2.3.2.2. Automatic exchange of information 11.3. The role of advisers 11.3.1. Reporting obligations 11.3.2. Anti-money laundering reporting 11.3.3. Mandatory disclosure rules reporting 11
2.1.2. Residency and nationality 12.2.2.1.3. Look-back period
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
256
RANK
677,757
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies