Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Capital Gains Realization Respond to Tax Rate Intertemporal Discontinuity?

41 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2025

Carrie Jinrui Chu

Business School, National University of Singapore

Li Huang

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Faculty of Business

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Xiaoyu Xue

National University Singapore

Date Written: August 29, 2025

Abstract

Relying on county-level capital gains realization data and state-level capital gains tax rates, we show that capital gains tax rate intertemporal discontinuity, the difference between short-term and long-term rates, reduces capital gains realization. More importantly, this negative association increases in adjusted gross income and taxpayer age, two prominent taxpayer characteristics that are associated with the reluctance to realize short-term capital gains. Further, taxpayer sophistication, as reflected in attention paid to capital gains tax and financial literacy, enhances the negative association between gain realization and rate discontinuity while risk-taking preference mitigates this association. We provides direct evidence of a negative effect of tax rate discontinuity on capital gains realization and demonstrate that the desire to delay a quick realization of capital gains varies consistently with taxpayers' characteristics and incentives.

Keywords: Capital Gains Tax, Capital Gains Realization, Tax Rate Intertemporal Discontinuity, Short-Term Rate, Long-Term Rate, State Tax, Tax Literacy

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Carrie Jinrui and Chu, Carrie Jinrui and Huang, Li and Li, Oliver Zhen and Xue, Xiaoyu, How Does Capital Gains Realization Respond to Tax Rate Intertemporal Discontinuity? (August 29, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5417274 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5417274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
74
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies