Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DEBRA: When Unstoppable Aspirations for Debt-Equity Parity Meet Immovable Tax Systems

Intertax, volume 53, issue Issue 2, 2025[10.54648/taxi2025009]

25 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025

Domenico Imparato

University of Hamburg - Institute of Law and Economics; University of California, Berkeley; University of Chicago

Date Written: April 10, 2025

Abstract

Achieving debt-equity parity in corporate taxation has long been a sought-after holy grail in the quest for capital structure neutrality; however, the latter does not always align with the former. The United States devoted significant thought on how to reach both, especially in the 1990s, but eventually did not achieve either with its tax reforms at the dawn of the twenty-first century. 

Now, it is Europe's turn to try. This is what the European Commission aims to accomplish with its Directive Proposal for a Debt Equity Bias Reduction Allowance (DEBRA). It would introduce a notional interest deduction on increases in a firm's equity and a dual-limiting rule that would cap deductible interest at 85% of exceeding borrowing costs (interest paid minus interest received) in addition to interest deductibility already being restricted to 30% of a firm's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). 
This article shows that DEBRA fails to achieve capital structure neutrality and does not ensure debt-equity parity. It skews the tax treatment of debt without promoting greater diversification in the portfolio choice of financing sources for corporate Europe as European companies remain heavily reliant on bank lending compared to their American counterparts. 
Last, the article suggests that the risk of debt-financing outsourcing as a potential consequence of DEBRA could inadvertently impact direct investments between Europe and some of its main trading partners, including the United States and the United Kingdom. This process is already underway in America with more anti-abuse provisions emerging in its tax treaties and federal tax regulations for the cross-border payment of interest and dividends.

Keywords: Debt-Equity Parity, Tax Bias, Capital Structure Neutrality, Allowance on Corporate Equity (ACE), DEBRA, ATAD, Double-Dip Financing Structures, Qualifying Asset Holding Companies (QAHCs), Dividends-Received Deduction (DRD), Tax Treaties

Suggested Citation:

Imparato, Domenico, DEBRA: When Unstoppable Aspirations for Debt-Equity Parity Meet Immovable Tax Systems (April 10, 2025). Intertax, volume 53, issue Issue 2, 2025[10.54648/taxi2025009], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5431595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies