Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Perceptions of Tax Law Complexity and Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Moderating Role of CFOs’ Experience

37 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025

Marisa Brito

University of Minho

Mario Marques

Universidade do Porto - CEF.UP - Center for Economics and Finance at UP; FEP, School of Management and Economics

Tânia Menezes Montenegro

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

This paper assesses the perceptions of chief financial officers (CFOs) on the corporate tax law complexity and examines the relationship between such perceptions and firms' tax avoidance. We resorted to a survey addressed to CFOs of Portuguese small and medium sized firms. The results reveal that tax complaints and appeals, transfer pricing regulations and tax incentives are the most complex dimensions of corporate taxation. Furthermore, the CFOs' work experience is found to moderate the association between tax complexity perceptions and tax avoidance. These findings underscore the importance of simplifying tax systems to enhance compliance, improve firms' investment and financing decisions, and stregthen public finance.

Keywords: Tax Complexity Perceptions, Corporate Tax Avoidance, Effective Tax Rates, Portuguese CFOs

Declaration of Interest

No conflict of interests .

Suggested Citation:

Brito, Marisa and Marques, Mario and Menezes Montenegro, Tânia,

Perceptions of Tax Law Complexity and Corporate Tax Avoidance: The Moderating Role of CFOs’ Experience

(March 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5433017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5433017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
154
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies