Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Electronic Transfer Taxes and the Stock Market: Empirical Evidence from Ghana’s E-Levy

19 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025

John Boamah

City University of Hong Kong (CityU), Department of Accountancy, Students; Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law; Xiamen University - Wang Yanan Institute for Studies in Economics (WISE)

Ernestina Ohenewaah Denchie

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Aurelia Naa Ayikaikor Ayi-Bonte

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper aims to highlight the correlation between Ghana's Electronic Transfer Levy (E-levy) and the stock market performance of the target firms. Initially, the E-levy aimed to raise GH₵7 billion by taxing electronic transfers exceeding GH₵100 daily at a rate of 1.75%. Following a rate reduction to 1.5%, the revenue target was revised to GH₵4.5 billion. Using a difference-indifferences approach, we find a negative effect on target firm stock prices, persisting around the implementation period. We also find that reducing the levy influences stock prices positively. Our channel test reveals that the levy affects the stock market through transaction volume, with a stronger result for firms with below-average trading volumes. The policy recommendation is to reduce the rate below 0.5%. IMPACT STATEMENT This study provides critical empirical insights into the correlation between Ghana's Electronic Transfer Levy (E-Levy) and the stock market performance of targeted firms, notably fintech companies and banks. Employing a robust difference-indifferences analytical approach, it reveals that the introduction of the levy negatively correlated with stock prices, primarily through reduced trading volumes, particularly affecting firms with lower-than-average trading activities. The research underscores significant market sensitivity to fiscal policy adjustments, highlighting the importance of carefully designing tax frameworks. The findings advocate for policy reconsideration, notably suggesting either cancellation or further reductions in the E-Levy rate to mitigate adverse market responses and enhance financial market stability and investor confidence in Ghana.

Keywords: E-Levy, Mobile Banking, Mobile Money, Difference-in-Differences, Ghana

JEL Classification: G21, G23, H31, H34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Boamah, John and Denchie, Ernestina Ohenewaah and Ayi-Bonte, Aurelia Naa Ayikaikor,

Electronic Transfer Taxes and the Stock Market: Empirical Evidence from Ghana’s E-Levy

(March 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5436174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5436174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies