Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Original Function Of Tax Apportionment

Tax Notes Federal, Vol. 188, No. 8, p. 1215 (2025)

10 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Conor Clarke

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Peter J. Wiedenbeck

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: August 21, 2025

Abstract

The Constitution’s requirement that direct taxes be apportioned by state population is both confounding and important. At best, tax apportionment is regarded as reflecting the unique federalism concerns of the Founding; at worst, it is viewed as a tainted product of the constitutional compromise over slavery. And, in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in Moore v. United States (2024)—which refused to rule out that apportionment might be required for taxes on unrealized gains—tax apportionment is the subject of renewed legal and scholarly interest.

We consider one historical dimension of tax apportionment that has not been developed elsewhere: its original function. Today, apportionment can feel puzzling. But it emerged and persisted across hundreds of years of English, British, and American colonial practice because it was useful. We argue that the original function of tax apportionment was to solve a set of incentive problems that emerges when a central authority (like the crown) must rely on local authorities (like town and county officials) for tax gathering. In the context of this principal-agent problem, apportionment preserves the benefits of local flexibility—the local community can raise its allotment however it sees fit—but imposes a quota that limits flexibility and protects the central fisc. But we do not offer this theory to rationalize apportionment today. Indeed, understanding the original function of tax apportionment helps us understand exactly how far the Constitution’s use of tax apportionment strayed from its original purpose. 

Suggested Citation:

Clarke, Conor and Wiedenbeck, Peter J., The Original Function Of Tax Apportionment (August 21, 2025). Tax Notes Federal, Vol. 188, No. 8, p. 1215 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5440200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5440200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
102
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies