Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Corporate Tax on Service Sector in India

19 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2025

Kaushik Belpu

PES University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 18, 2024

Abstract

The study examines the impact of corporate tax policies on India's service sector, a key economic driver. It examines how changes in tax rates affect the performance, investment patterns, and competitiveness of various service industries like IT, finance, hospitality, and healthcare. The analysis is based upon recent economic reforms aimed at attracting investment. The study also examines the relationship between tax policies and investment decisions, profitability, and innovation in service-oriented enterprises. It also examines the implications of tax incentives on job creation, technology adoption, and sustainable growth. The findings offer valuable insights for policymakers and industry stakeholders.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, Service Sector, India, Economic Reforms, Investment, Competitiveness, Tax Policies, Fiscal Environment, Growth, Innovation

Suggested Citation:

Belpu, Kaushik, Effect of Corporate Tax on Service Sector in India (April 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5446614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5446614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
64
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies