Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Impact of Social Media Marketing Activities on Consumer Behavioral Intention of Tax Consulting Services

63 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Michael Neubert

EIM European Institute of Management

Mandy Witt

EIM European Institute of Management

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

This study analyses the impact of social media marketing activities (SMMAs) on customer behaviour in German tax advisory firms. The SO -R model is used to examine the influence of four SMMA dimensions-customization, entertainment, interaction, and trendiness-on perceived value (PV) and the resulting behavioural intentions (purchase intention, willingness to pay a premium, e-WoM). Following an online survey in January 2025 with 390 valid participants, the model was tested using Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM). The results indicate that social media marketing activities do not directly influence user behaviour. Instead, PV acts as the main mediator: as the perceived usefulness of the content increases, the purchase intention, willingness to pay, and willingness to recommend increase. Customisation and interaction have a positive influence on PV, while trendiness and e-WoM are less important. The significant explanatory power of the model (R² for PV = 0.649) confirms the importance of customised, interactive content for the digital communication of tax firms. The study offers both theoretical and practical insights. It adds a knowledge-based service to SMMA research and provides clear recommendations for the strategic use of social media in tax consulting. It also provides evidence of a suppression effect, where the positive influence of PV offsets negative immediate effects. Research shows that strategically important and benefit-focused content is crucial for the success of social media marketing in tax consultancy. The key conclusion is that social media, when used to deliver credible, user-centered value, becomes a powerful tool for trust-building, differentiation, and strategic client development in professional service firms.

Keywords: Social Media Marketing Activities, Perceived Value, Customer Behavioral Intentions, Tax Consulting, Purchase Intention, Willingness to Pay a Premium, Electronic Word of Mouth, S-O-R Model, Digital Communication, PLS-SEM

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that they have no (competing) financial or non-financial interests related to this study.

Ethics Approval

This study complies with the ethical guidelines of the European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity and adheres to the GDPR requirements for data protection. Ethical approval was obtained from the Institutional Review Board of EIM, and informed consent was secured from all participants.

Funder Statement

The authors self-funded the research, and no external funding was obtained for its completion.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, M30, M31, M39

Suggested Citation:

Neubert, Michael and Witt, Mandy,

The Impact of Social Media Marketing Activities on Consumer Behavioral Intention of Tax Consulting Services

(July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5450594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5450594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
90
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral Marketing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies