Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framework for Cryptocurrency Tax Evasion in Decentralized Exchanges from a Critical Realist Perspective

14 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Syed Abbas

Taylor's University - Taylors University, Students

Nor Shaipah Abdul Wahab

Taylor's Business School (TBS)

Firdous Mohd Farouk

Taylor's Business School (TBS)

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

This research examines the complexities of cryptocurrency taxation in decentralized exchanges (DEXs) across four jurisdictions: the United States, United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, and Pakistan. The decentralized and pseudonymous characteristics of decentralized exchanges (DEXs) create substantial challenges for tax authorities, leading to regulatory deficiencies and potential avenues for tax evasion. This research employs a critical realist perspective to identify events, generative mechanisms, and contextual conditions that contribute to non-compliance in DEX environments. This study utilizes deterrence theory, classical deterrence theory, and the economic theory of finance to construct a mechanism-based explanatory model that connects the structural, technological, and behavioral aspects of tax evasion. A triangular methodology that includes document analysis, the Delphi method, and semi-structured interviews facilitates the synthesis of macro-and micro-level factors influencing tax compliance outcomes. The results provide theoretical insights into mechanism-oriented explanations of financial noncompliance and practical recommendations for adaptive, jurisdiction-specific cryptocurrency tax policies.

Keywords: Cryptocurrency, Tax Evasion, Decentralized Exchanges, Critical Realism, Tax Regulation

Suggested Citation:

Abbas, Syed Arslan and Abdul Wahab, Nor Shaipah and Farouk, Firdous Mohd, Framework for Cryptocurrency Tax Evasion in Decentralized Exchanges from a Critical Realist Perspective (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5453374 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5453374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
160
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies