Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CLUSTER ANALYSIS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF TAX ADMINISTRATIONS IN THE EUROPEAN UNION

21 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2025

Daniela Pirvu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Carmen Mihaela Mogoiu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Claudia STANCIU-TOLEA

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study explores the use of cluster analysis to group the tax administrations of EU member states according to their characteristics and performance.Given the constantly changing economic environment, the tax administrations need to optimize their revenue collection strategies, while maintaining the balance between efficiency, administrative costs and tax compliance. This study aims to assess the performance structure of tax administrations applying segmentation techniques, facilitating the identification of groups of countries with similar characteristics and highlighting the differences between them.The cluster analysis allows classifying the tax administrations into homogeneous groups, using relevant indicators such as the share of tax revenues in GDP, the contribution of different tax categories to the collected and the administrative costs associated with collection. This methodology highlights the common patterns among the UE countries and identifies the most efficient tax models. The comparative analysis of clusters in two years (2018 and 2022) allows the identification of changes in the tax systems of the EU member states (the variations in the structure of tax revenues, the administration costs and the impact of tax reforms implemented during this period). This analysis also shows the existing discrepancies between the EU tax administrations and to identifies the most efficient tax practices, providing suggestions to improve the tax performance in the states with difficulties in this area.

Keywords: cluster analysis, performance, tax administrations

Suggested Citation:

Pirvu, Daniela and Mogoiu, Carmen Mihaela and STANCIU-TOLEA, Claudia, CLUSTER ANALYSIS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF TAX ADMINISTRATIONS IN THE EUROPEAN UNION. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5460122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5460122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M C Basri , M Felix , R. -Olken Hanna , B A
Tax Administration vs. Tax Rates: Evidence from Corporate Taxation in Indonesia Posted: 2019
J M Cordero , D.-C. -Francisco Carlos , P.-C. -Nickolaos , G T , W J Crandall
A conditional directional distance function approach for measuring tax collection efficiency: Evidence from Spanish regional offices
International Transactions in Operational Research , volume 28 Posted: 2010
A E Efecan
How Tax Wedge of Low and Upper-income Households Affects Income Distribution: Findings from OECD Countries
Prague Economic Papers , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 246 - 272 Posted: 2023
C Evans
The operating costs of taxation: A review of the research
Economic Affairs , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 9 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies