Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Decline of Chevron, The Rise of Loper Bright, and The Shifting Sands of Tax Law

28 Fla. Tax Rev. 480 (2025)

29 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2025 Last revised: 15 Sep 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

The repeal of the Chevron deference doctrine has triggered what some may argue is a seismic shift in how tax law may be interpreted and applied, which may have far-reaching implications for taxpayers, the Internal Revenue Service and the federal government. This Article examines the evolving landscape of U.S. federal tax law in the wake of the Loper Bright decision, specifically focusing on the tax and economic consequences for key tax areas such as the General Anti-Abuse Rule, the complicated foreign tax credit and transfer pricing regimes, as well as the rules that characterize financial instruments or equity investments and the technical measurement and accrual of interest and OID rules. By removing the automatic deference previously afforded to the federal agencies in general and the IRS in taxation, courts may now be open to take a far more active role in interpreting ambiguous tax statutes, which could introduce further uncertainty on one hand, but also perhaps new opportunities for taxpayers. This Article argues that the repeal of Chevron deference could potentially result in inconsistent rulings, heightened litigation, and a redefined balance of power between the judiciary and regulatory agencies. As the U.S. administrative legal system enters this new era, the U.S. federal tax system may follow, and all parties involved must navigate an increasingly unpredictable legal environment, with long-term consequences for innovation, compliance and tax strategy.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Policy, Chevron, Chevron Deference, Loper Bright, Skidmore Deference, Federal Tax, Loper Bright v. Raimondo

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron and Shanan, Tamir, The Decline of Chevron, The Rise of Loper Bright, and The Shifting Sands of Tax Law (September 01, 2025). 28 Fla. Tax Rev. 480 (2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5462974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5462974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
99
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies