Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The Global Minimum Tax and The Future of International Taxation

87 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

John Vella

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; University of Oxford - Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Date Written: July 09, 2025

Abstract

Over 140 countries have now agreed to the introduction of a Global Minimum Tax, widely regarded as the most significant reform of the international business tax system in a century. While acknowledging that the agreement constitutes a remarkable political and technical achievement, this article questions whether the hype over the reform is justified and reflects on its likely impact on the future of international business taxation. The article makes three principal contributions. First, it argues that the Global Minimum Tax's impact on the existing system is, at best, mixed. Critically, the system continues to perform poorly overall. Second, it argues that this mixed impact is caused by the policy, not its implementation. Propping up the existing origin-based system with a Global Minimum Tax is a poor policy choice because the destabilising forces generated by the system’s incentive incompatibility persist. These forces undermine the reform and continue to undermine the system overall. Third, it argues that by doubling down on the existing origin-based system, the Global Minimum Tax makes it more difficult to pursue promising reform options that depart fundamentally from this system. This is troubling given the article’s conclusion that the system continues to perform poorly overall, even in the wake of the Global Minimum Tax. 

Keywords: International Tax, Corporation Tax, Business Tax, Global Minimum Tax, Tax Reform, International Cooperation and Competition, Tax Competition, Profit Shifting

Suggested Citation:

Vella, John,

The Global Minimum Tax and The Future of International Taxation

(July 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5470827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5470827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
283
RANK
545,548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies