Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparing for "Disease X": Lessons from Tax and Non-Tax Policy Responses to the Covid-19 Pandemic in Singapore and Australia

(2025) 27 Journal of Australian Taxation (Forthcoming) 

37 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2025

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

During the Covid-19 pandemic, a lack of pre-pandemic planning resulted in sub-optimal policy outcomes. Crucial lessons can be drawn from the experience of Singapore and Australia in the pandemic in implementing various tax and non-tax economic measures; lessons that can help in preparing for the next pandemic ("Disease X"). This article analyses and critically evaluates three main categories of economic measures: direct payments, tax measures and non-tax "other" measures. It finds that direct payment measures such as jobs support had a very significant impact on preserving jobs and supporting the economy. However, eligibility conditions have to be carefully designed for such measures to be feasible. This article finds that insolvency and rent moratoriums can be effective in dealing with the immediate effects of a pandemic, though they must be allowed to expire in a timely manner. Finally, this article highlights the potential benefits of loans facilitated by the Government.

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Preparing for "Disease X": Lessons from Tax and Non-Tax Policy Responses to the Covid-19 Pandemic in Singapore and Australia (September 01, 2025). (2025) 27 Journal of Australian Taxation (Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5485846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5485846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies