Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SALT Cap Workarounds

37 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2025

Matthew Comey

Government of the United States of America - Joint Committee on Taxation

Brian Gallagher

Government of the United States of America - Joint Committee on Taxation

William Gorman

Government of the United States of America - Joint Committee on Taxation

Date Written: September 12, 2025

Abstract

The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act considerably limited federal deductions for state and local tax (SALT) payments, generally to $10,000 for individual taxpayers. In response, many states enacted passthrough entity tax (PTET) laws to facilitate a workaround to this limitation. PTET laws, in effect, allow passthrough business owners to remit their state individual income taxes via their businesses, where SALT deductions are not subject to any limit. Using this workaround, we estimate that passthrough businesses deducted $67 billion of income taxes in 2024, translating to $14 billion in reduced federal revenue and largely benefiting the very top of the income distribution.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, One Big Beautiful Bill Act, SALT Deduction, Passthrough Business

Declaration of Interest

This research embodies work undertaken by the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation, but as members of both parties and both houses of Congress comprise the Joint Committee on Taxation, this work should not be construed to represent the position of any member of the Committee.

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H26, H68, H71, H77

Suggested Citation:

Comey, Matthew and Gallagher, Brian and Gorman, William, SALT Cap Workarounds (September 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5489326 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5489326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
311
RANK
856,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies