Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UN Tax Negotiations: North-South Tensions and the Challenge of Institutional Legitimacy

Caribbean Tax Law Journal, 8th ed. (2025). 

6 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2025 Last revised: 17 Sep 2025

Assaf Harpaz

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: September 17, 2025

Abstract

The drafting process for a United Nations Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation, along with two early protocols, is now underway. A UN framework convention represents a Global South effort to shift international tax policymaking from the OECD to the UN. For developing countries, the UN has long been viewed as a more inclusive space for tax policy negotiations, producing more favorable but historically less influential standards compared to the OECD.




Support for the UN framework convention, including its terms of reference, has been sharply divided across traditional Global North-South lines. The backlash following the OECD’s recent two-pillar reform triggered the UN initiative, as Global South countries quickly turned to the UN to begin a new chapter in cross-border taxation. Nonetheless, the UN framework convention faces an uphill battle as the Global North and South fundamentally diverge on questions of choice of forum, tax principles, and the desired scope of the convention. The U.S.’s recent withdrawal from the UN negotiation process casts further doubt on the institution’s capacity to achieve universality and compete with the OECD for the informal title of “World Tax Organization.”




This article examines the ongoing UN tax negotiations, focusing on the Global North-South tensions and the historical context of the UN forum shift. It argues that the North-South divide remains a barrier to garnering institutional legitimacy, potentially undermining the framework convention’s viability.

Keywords: international tax, framework convention, UN Tax, OECD tax, tax cooperation, Global North, Global South, digital tax, tax policy, UN framework convention on international tax cooperation, World Tax Organization, United Nations tax convention, OECD Pillar One, OECD Pillar Two, Global Minimum Tax, Taxing the Digital Economy, Tax, Taxation, tax negotiations, UN tax vote, Global North-South, Developing countries, Developed countries, Trump Tax, UN tax proposal, BEPS, Permanent Establishment, Tax evasion, Tax Avoidance, Profit Shifting, Tax Havens, Human Rights Tax

JEL Classification: K34, F38, H20, H77, K33

Suggested Citation:

Harpaz, Assaf, UN Tax Negotiations: North-South Tensions and the Challenge of Institutional Legitimacy (September 17, 2025). Caribbean Tax Law Journal, 8th ed. (2025). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5498463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5498463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
155
RANK
785,592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies