Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compliance Effects of the Automatic Exchange of Information: Evidence from the Swiss Tax Amnesty

69 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2025

Enea Baselgia

ETH Zürich; ETH Zürich - KOF Swiss Economic Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper studies the effects of the 2017 multilateral automatic exchange of information (AEoI) on tax compliance in Switzerland. Using detailed administrative tax data and difference-in-differences designs, I find significant positive compliance effects. The AEoI prompted 107k taxpayers (2% of all) to participate in the amnesty, disclosing CHF 42.3 billion—over 6% of GDP. At the micro-level, once evaders participate in the amnesty, their reported wealth increases by approximately 50% on average, with compliance effects persisting in the medium run. Furthermore, I document that tax evasion in Switzerland is widespread and significantly more evenly distributed than in other countries.

Keywords: D31, F38, F42, H24, H26, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Baselgia, Enea, The Compliance Effects of the Automatic Exchange of Information: Evidence from the Swiss Tax Amnesty. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5503130 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5503130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Annette Alstadsaeter , Elisa Casi , Jakob Miethe , Barbara Stage
Lost in Information: National Implementation of Global Tax Agreements Posted: 2023
Annette Alstadsaeter , Niels Johannesen , Ségal Le Guern , Gabriel Herry , Zucman
Tax evasion and tax avoidance
Journal of Public Economics , volume 206 Posted: 2022
Annette Alstadsaeter , Niels Johannesen , Gabriel Zucman
Who owns the wealth in tax havens? Macro evidence and implications for global inequality
Journal of Public Economics , volume 162 , p. 89 - 100 Posted: 2018
Annette Alstadsaeter , Niels Johannesen , Gabriel Zucman
Tax evasion and inequality
American Economic Review , volume 109 , issue 6 , p. 2073 - 2103 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
209
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies