Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Takeovers and taxes: Estimates from a two-sided matching model

39 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2025

Rina Kikuchi

Shiga University

Tue Gorgens

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Roger H. Gordon

University of California, San Diego (UCSD) - Department of Economics; Harvard University - Department of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Abstract

In assessing the influence of taxes on corporate takeovers, sorting among firms poses complications. We employ a recently developed matching model that explicitly accounts for sorting behaviors, applying it for the first time to analyze tax implications in corporate takeover markets. Examining Japanese M&A transactions (1999--2018) between publicly-traded corporations, our estimates reveal heterogeneous effects, where the role of acquirer information and control perceptibly moderates the value of loss carryforwards across different transaction types. However, the estimated value generated from loss carryforwards is modest, indicating the stringency of Japan's anti-avoidance rules.

Keywords: Corporate tax, corporate reorganization, M&As, matching estimator

Suggested Citation:

Kikuchi, Rina and Gorgens, Tue and Gordon, Roger H., Takeovers and taxes: Estimates from a two-sided matching model. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5510753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5510753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Oktay Akkus , J Anthony Cookson , Ali Hortacsu
The determinants of bank mergers: A revealed preference analysis
Management Science , volume 62 , p. 2241 - 2258 Posted: 2015
Heitor Almeida , Murillo Campello , Michael S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Eli Amir , Theodore Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
55
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies