Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposed Cloud Services Sourcing Rule: The Right Direction

10 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Karen Sam

Independent

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

The Treasury and IRS have proposed well-thought-out cloud transaction sourcing rules that are sorely needed. They include relevant and appropriate allocation factors and have made reasonable judgments in balancing theoretical accuracy with administrative simplicity.

This article both refutes certain criticisms that have been made against these proposed sourcing rules and suggests important amendments that it is hoped will be implemented when these regulations are finalized in the future. These amendments include the requirement that sourcing results for multinationals be determined on a unitary approach, the mis-labeled the intangible property factor is renamed and adjusted, and the coverage of the proposed three-factor formula approach is expanded to include all income from services conducted through electronic mediums.

Keywords: International taxation, Sourcing of Income, Cloud services, Profit-shifting, Proposed Treasury Regulation

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

N/A

Funder Statement

No funder

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M. and Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Sam, Karen, Proposed Cloud Services Sourcing Rule: The Right Direction (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5511301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5511301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies