Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Global Network of Oligarch Companies

50 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Jinhwan Kim

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Marcel Olbert

London Business School

Iman Taghaddosinejad

University of Cambridge; London Business School

Date Written: September 23, 2025

Abstract

We study how Russian oligarch-affiliated companies operate globally and respond to sanctions. We construct a dataset tracking 71 companies, 1,800 international subsidiaries, and their institutional investors between 2009 and 2023. These companies maintain extensive networks, especially in tax havens. Difference-indifferences estimates show that the 2014 and 2022 sanctions had limited impact on the companies' global footprint or access to institutional minority investors. Instead, oligarch companies use more tax haven entities and withdraw from jurisdictions with beneficial ownership disclosure. Our findings highlight how organizational complexity and regulatory arbitrage undermine sanctions, suggesting that globally coordinated transparency regulation is critical for enforcement.

Keywords: Oligarchs, Global Capital Allocation, Tax Havens, Transparency Regulation, Business Groups

Suggested Citation:

Gallemore, John and Kim, Jinhwan and Olbert, Marcel and Taghaddosinejad, Iman and Taghaddosinejad, Iman, The Global Network of Oligarch Companies (September 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5525498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5525498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
RANK
719,188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies