Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Revolutions: Dollars, Rights, and Social Change

74 DEPAUL L. REV. 1175 (Summer 2025)

43 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 01, 2025

Abstract

This Article explores the intersection of tax policy and civil rights in the United States, examining how fiscal measures have historically influenced and been influenced by social justice movements. Through an analysis of key historical periods, including the abolitionist movement, the Jim Crow era, and the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, this Article reveals the dual role of tax policy as both a tool for advancing and obstructing social equity. The discussion extends to contemporary tax policies, such as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and proposals for wealth taxes, highlighting their implications for income inequality and social justice. By tracing the evolution of tax laws and their impact on civil rights, this Article provides a comprehensive understanding of the role of tax policy in the ongoing struggle for social equity. It contends that tax policy should be aligned with the principles of justice and equality to promote a more equitable society.

Keywords: Tax Law, Tax Policy, Tax Justice, Federal Tax, Social Justice, Poll Taxes, Property Taxes, Tax Exempt Status, Jim Crow, Slave Taxes, TCJA, Wealth Tax, EITC, Equity, Tax Equity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron, Tax Revolutions: Dollars, Rights, and Social Change (March 01, 2025). 74 DEPAUL L. REV. 1175 (Summer 2025), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5537299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5537299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
131
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies