Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anticipating Change: Stock Market and Firm Responses to Disaggregation in Income Tax Disclosures

55 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025 Last revised: 11 Oct 2025

Derek Christensen

University of Oregon

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Anh Nguyen

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Max Pflitsch

Technical University of Dortmund

Date Written: September 28, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates investors and managers' anticipatory responses to Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-09, which will require firms to provide disaggregated income tax disclosures beginning in 2026. Currently, ASU 2023-09 is the focus of intense debate, with investors supporting the enhanced transparency and preparers and Congress raising significant concerns. In fact, on July 20, 2025, Congress threatened to withhold funding from the Financial Accounting Standard Board until it repeals ASU 2023-09, making empirical evidence on the standard's effects timely and critical. Consistent with investors expecting the benefits of ASU 2023-09 to outweigh the costs, we find that firms more exposed to the standard experience positive (negative) returns around milestones that convey new information about the standard (Congress' threat). Using a difference-indifferences design, we also find that more affected firms reduce their disclosed level of tax risk in the years after the issuance of ASU 2023-09 but before its adoption. However, consistent with merely a reporting response, supplemental tests reveal the decreases are driven primarily by managers' reporting discretion. Overall, our results show that ASU 2023-09 is both relevant to investors and consequential for reporting, providing new evidence on the capital market and reporting effects of disclosure-only standards.

Keywords: Tax Disclosures, ASU 2023-09, Investor Reactions, Uncertain Tax Benefits, Tax Risks

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K34

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Derek and Lynch, Dan and Nguyen, Anh and Nguyen, Anh and Pflitsch, Max, Anticipating Change: Stock Market and Firm Responses to Disaggregation in Income Tax Disclosures (September 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5542138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5542138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies