Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Voluntary Private Tax Disclosure Reduce IRS Audit Risk?

49 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Andrew Belnap

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Read Hadfield

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

This paper examines the trade-off between voluntary private tax disclosure and audit risk associated with firms' use of private letter rulings (PLRs). PLRs allow firms to seek binding guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on the tax treatment of specific transactions, reducing uncertainty but requiring voluntary disclosure of sensitive tax information to the IRS. Using a novel dataset of PLRs disclosed in public firms' SEC filings, we find that firms receiving a PLR for the first time experience a decreased likelihood of audit. These results are concentrated in small firms, and those with moderate levels of tax avoidance. We find no other change in tax outcomes--GAAP ETRs, Cash ETRs, or UTBs, suggesting that firms' tax behavior does not change following receipt of the PLR. We find firms that disclose PLRs also change tax disclosure, suggesting they perceive and want to convey to stakeholders this decreased audit risk. Our study contributes to the literature on corporate tax strategy, voluntary disclosure, and tax enforcement by providing large-sample empirical evidence on the effects of PLRs. For policymakers, our results suggest that expanding the availability of PLRs or similar programs could improve tax compliance and reduce enforcement costs for both firms and the IRS.

Keywords: Tax, Disclosure, Private letter ruling, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Belnap, Andrew and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Hadfield, Read and Hadfield, Read, Does Voluntary Private Tax Disclosure Reduce IRS Audit Risk? (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5550398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5550398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
80
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies