Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Tax Avoidance Driven by AI Neural Networks: Strengths and Weaknesses of General Anti-avoidance Regimes in South Africa and Elsewhere

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 374-387

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Shaun Parsons

Independent

Albertus Marais

Independent

P. Johann Hattingh

Independent

Abstract

This article explains the ever-growing use of artificial intelligence (AI) in tax and assesses the strength and weaknesses of general anti-avoidance rule regimes to address tax avoidance driven by AI. Proactive steps by regulators are desirable. Recommendations are formulated underlining the need for international coordination and an “all of government” approach.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2y1gncy

Keywords: AI, GAAR, tax avoidance, tax compliance

Suggested Citation:

Hattingh, Johann. and Marais, Albertus and Parsons, Shaun and Parsons, Shaun and Marais, Albertus and Hattingh, P. Johann, Regulating Tax Avoidance Driven by AI Neural Networks: Strengths and Weaknesses of General Anti-avoidance Regimes in South Africa and Elsewhere. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 374-387, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2y1gncy
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies