Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Definition of Control in Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules and Double Taxation: Lessons From the Brazilian, US, EU and OECD Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 192-201

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Aluizio Porcaro Rausch

Independent

Abstract

In controlled foreign corporation (CFC) rules, the adoption of the term “participation” both in the definition of control and in the ratable income inclusion rule (IIR) may cause double taxation. The author considers these rules, and suggests a narrow interpretation of the term “participation” used in the ratable income inclusion rule as “entitlement to profits”.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/11ajj0v

Keywords: CFC, control, double taxation, participation, IIR (OECD), profits, ATAD

Suggested Citation:

Rausch, Aluizio Porcaro, The Definition of Control in Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules and Double Taxation: Lessons From the Brazilian, US, EU and OECD Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 192-201, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/11ajj0v
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
35
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies