Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A First Belgian Judgment on the Interpretation of the Term “Beneficial Owner” in a Tax Treaty and the EU Interest and Royalties Directive (2003/49)

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 241-246

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Luc De Broe

Independent

Abstract

Profit shifting appears to be driven by underpriced group intangible sales to low-taxed affiliates derived from valuations resulting from income allocation methods. The enforcement of the periodic adjustment of the intangible price cannot definitively avoid this problem, but could (partly) avoid sales in breach of the arm’s length principle.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2z8yfd0

Keywords: profit shifting, beneficial ownership, tax treaty, Interest and Royalties Directive, arm's length principle, case law

Suggested Citation:

De Broe, Luc and De Broe, Luc, A First Belgian Judgment on the Interpretation of the Term “Beneficial Owner” in a Tax Treaty and the EU Interest and Royalties Directive (2003/49). Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 241-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2z8yfd0
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
32
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies