Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Limitation of Interest Deduction and the Tax Treatment of Groups: Time for a Change in Portugal?

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 79, Pages 350-357

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

António Martins

Independent

Abstract

Council Directive 2016/1164 (ATAD) states that if a taxpayer is a member of a group, then it may be given the right to fully deduct interest expenses if its ratio of equity over total assets is equal to, or higher than, the equivalent ratio of the group. The Portuguese limitation rule does not provide this option, relying instead on an EBITDA-based clause. This article advocates for a change.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1ar1mkf

Keywords: ATAD, EBITDA, deductions, interest, taxpayer

Suggested Citation:

Martins, António, The Limitation of Interest Deduction and the Tax Treatment of Groups: Time for a Change in Portugal?. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 79, Pages 350-357, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1ar1mkf
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
59
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies