Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automatic Exchange of Information and the Protection of Taxpayers’ Rights: Towards a New Multilateral Multi-tiered Architecture

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 279-300

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Abstract

This article outlines measures to make automatic exchange of information more inclusive and efficient through a two-tiered system, while securing the effective protection of the rights of the private parties affected. It proposes incorporating such measures into a multilateral protocol of a future UN Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3y05q8z

Keywords: automatic exchange of information, taxpayers' rights, UN Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation, classical system

Suggested Citation:

Lazarov, Ivan and Pistone, Pasquale and Pistone, Pasquale and Turina, Alessandro and Lazarov, Ivan and Turina, Alessandro and Pistone, Pasquale, Automatic Exchange of Information and the Protection of Taxpayers’ Rights: Towards a New Multilateral Multi-tiered Architecture. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 279-300, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3y05q8z
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies