Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments on the Klaus Vogel Lecture 2023: the Past, Present and Future of Destination-based Income Taxation

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 72-73

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Stewart Brant

Independent

Abstract

In these comments, Stewart Brant responds to Professor Reuven Avi-Yonah’s Klaus Vogel Lecture for 2023 on the history of, the current state of affairs regarding and the prospects for destination-based income taxation.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/22hf8bv

Keywords: tax treaty, allocation of taxing rights, digital economy, Pillar 1 (OECD), arm's length principle, Amount A (Pillar 1, OECD), Amount B (Pillar 1, OECD)

Suggested Citation:

Brant, Stewart, Comments on the Klaus Vogel Lecture 2023: the Past, Present and Future of Destination-based Income Taxation. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 72-73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/22hf8bv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
25
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies