Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Concept of the “Object and Purpose” in Tax Treaty Law Based on the Vienna Convention (1969) and the Principal Purposes Test Rule

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 110-126

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Kasper Dziurdź

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the “object and purpose” of a tax treaty by discussing its meaning, identification and relevance based on the Vienna Convention (1969). It proposes an interpretation of the principal purpose test rule that remains within the limits of treaty wording while giving priority to the object and purpose.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/11fvrdd

Keywords: tax treaty, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, treaty interpretation, principal purpose test

Suggested Citation:

Dziurdź, Kasper and Dziurdź, Kasper, The Concept of the “Object and Purpose” in Tax Treaty Law Based on the Vienna Convention (1969) and the Principal Purposes Test Rule. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 110-126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/11fvrdd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
25
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies