Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Transparency Standards and the Tackling of Illicit Financial Flows

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 306-315

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Norma Chayo Dichi

Independent

Abstract

Illicit financial flows, most of which are tax-motivated, continue to cripple development and undermine the rule of law and fairness in our societies. The now mature framework of international tax transparency standards can help tackle these flows by affording access and cross-border exchange of relevant financial and ownership data.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/10fndaq

Keywords: tax transparency, illicit financial flows, exchange of information, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Chayo Dichi, Norma, International Tax Transparency Standards and the Tackling of Illicit Financial Flows. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 306-315, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/10fndaq
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
36
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies