Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legitimacy of Tax Law in Europe and the United States: Comparing Decision-making Processes in Domestic Tax Law

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 214-222

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Tomasz Bathelt

Independent

Paula Granell

Independent

Abstract

This article examines the tax legislation decision-making processes in European countries and the United States, noting similarities and differences in legislative initiative, constitutional review and citizen participation. These aspects of the legislative processes and other characteristics are analysed to assess their effect on the legitimacy of the tax system.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/8rmxwa

Keywords: tax system, domestic tax law, tax burden

Suggested Citation:

Bathelt, Tomasz and Granell, Paula, The Legitimacy of Tax Law in Europe and the United States: Comparing Decision-making Processes in Domestic Tax Law. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 78, Pages 214-222, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/8rmxwa
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
28
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies