Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Status of the Harmonization of Tax Enforcement Within the European Union

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 79, Pages 359-373

Posted: 2 Oct 2025

Thomas Sendke

Independent

Abstract

This article applies a part of the findings of the author’s doctoral thesis on the protection of the taxpayer’s fundamental rights in situations of cross-border tax enforcement within the European Union, which was awarded the International Fiscal Association’s 2025 Mitchell B. Carroll Prize, and examines the evolving interplay between national and EU tax procedural law, highlighting the need for effective fundamental rights protection amid expanding EU administrative cooperation and increasing individual reporting obligations.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/11zzkbw

Keywords: constitutional law, procedural law, harmonization of tax, DAC, taxpayers' rights

Suggested Citation:

Sendke, Thomas, The Status of the Harmonization of Tax Enforcement Within the European Union. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 79, Pages 359-373, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/11zzkbw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
37
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies