Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax risk detection for gig platform enterprises: Integration of event knowledge graph and interpretable ensemble models

29 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Fuwei Zhang

Hefei University of Technology

Wei Cao

Hefei University of Technology

Weidong Zhu

Hefei University of Technology

Chao Zhang

Hefei University of Technology - School of Management

Abstract

This research aims to builds an appropriate model for assessing tax risk in gig platform enterprises in China. A novel “TR-EKG-ML-IT” modeling framework, which integrates event knowledge graph and ensemble models, is developed to achieve this goal based on the newly constructed tax risk indicator system. A tax risk event knowledge graph (TR-EKG) is initially created to investigate the intricate and hidden relationships among diverse attributes and their consequences. Then the 10 most relevant features from TR-EKG are utilized in diverse ensemble learning techniques. Furthermore, two methods for addressing data imbalance are employed. An examination of a real tax dataset from H and X cities demonstrates that graph reasoning attributes significantly enhance the efficiency of tax risk detection, particularly by substantially decreasing Type I error. The TR-EKG-Staking-ADASYN model exhibits superior performance from both technical and statistical perspectives. Moreover, SHAP-based interpretability analysis indicates that invoice-related factors, such as the percentage of invoices issued at night and the timing of the initial tax payment, significantly improve risk identification. The case study corroborates these conclusions. Our findings provide tax regulatory authorities with critical insights into the tax risk detection of gig platform enterprises by identifying the important features derived from graph reasoning.

Keywords: Tax risk detection, Chinese gig platform enterprise, Event knowledge graph, Graph reasoning, Ensemble Learning, SHAP Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Fuwei and Cao, Wei and Zhu, Weidong and Zhang, Chao, Tax risk detection for gig platform enterprises: Integration of event knowledge graph and interpretable ensemble models. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5571113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5571113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
G Burtch , S Carnahan , B N Greenwood
Can You Gig It? An Empirical Examination of the Gig Economy and Entrepreneurial Activity
Management Science , volume 64 , p. 5497 - 5520 Posted: 2018
S Chen , Z Liu , W Cai
Digital transformation and tax compliance in chinese industrial sector
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 102 Posted: 2025
S Vallas , J B Schor
What do platforms do? understanding the gig economy
Annual Review of Sociology , volume 46 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2020
A J Wood , M Graham , V Lehdonvirta , I Hjorth
Good gig, bad gig: autonomy and algorithmic control in the global gig economy
Work, employment and society , volume 33 , p. 56 - 75 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies