Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fundamentals of Corporate Income Taxation 

P. Pistone et al., Fundamentals of Corporate Income Taxation (IBFD 2025), Books IBFD, https://doi.org/10.59403/744b95. Sample reproduced with kind permission from IBFD.

19 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2025 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Pasquale Pistone

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Vienna University of Economics and Business

Jennifer Roeleveld

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

Joanna Wheeler

IBFD

João Félix Pinto Nogueira

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation; Law School - Catholic University of Portugal (UCP); University of Cape Town (UCT)

Craig West

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); University of Cape Town

Alessandro Turina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Sergio Messina

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Sam van der Vlugt

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD); Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: August 01, 2025

Abstract

This book provides a comprehensive overview of corporate income taxation, offering a global perspective on corporate income tax law and policy. It systematically presents the core concepts and features of corporate income taxation. This book is the third volume of the "Fundamentals of Taxation" series, following the Fundamentals of Taxation (2019) and Fundamentals of Personal Income Taxation (2025), and focuses specifically on corporate income tax systems. The fifteen chapters cover topics including historical context, taxable persons, territorial scope, timing issues, taxable income and taxable events, tax rates, procedural aspects, international aspects, treatment of groups, restructuring and liquidation, tax evasion, avoidance and planning, special types of entities, investment taxation, taxation of special types of activities and the global minimum taxation. This primer is an essential resource for students, professionals and curious learners, fostering a common understanding of corporate income taxation's legal principles and broader implications in a globalized world.

Suggested Citation:

Pistone, Pasquale and Roeleveld, Jennifer and Hattingh, Johann and Wheeler, Joanna and Pinto Nogueira, João Félix and West, Craig and Turina, Alessandro and Lazarov, Ivan and Messina, Sergio and van der Vlugt, Sam, Fundamentals of Corporate Income Taxation  (August 01, 2025). P. Pistone et al., Fundamentals of Corporate Income Taxation (IBFD 2025), Books IBFD, https://doi.org/10.59403/744b95. Sample reproduced with kind permission from IBFD., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5574078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5574078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
81
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies