Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture and tax compliance: a lab-in-the-field experiment in South Tyrol

32 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2025 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Matthias Cologna

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Robin Scheuch

Max Planck Institue for Research on Collective Goods; University of Cologne

Date Written: August 28, 2025

Abstract

Cross-cultural research on tax compliance provides two competing explanations for differences in tax paying behavior. The institutional explanation focuses on differences in institutions (e.g., fines, frequency of audits), while the cultural explanation emphasizes differences in culture as an important driver. Contrary to most other studies analyzing differences across countries, we take not only a within-country but a within-region perspective, specifically the Northern Italian region of South Tyrol. Here, two main linguistic - and cultural - groups, German and Italian, co-exist within the same institutional environment. We use a lab-in-the-field experiment with a non-student pool of 190 participants recruited in Bolzano/Bozen, the largest city in South Tyrol. We document that, while the overall level of evasion is similar, there is a difference in tax compliance between the two groups when differentiating between the intensive and extensive margin: Italian speakers evade larger amounts whereas German speakers tend to evade more often. Our experiment is completed by a belief elicitation task and a dice truth-telling game. For both groups perceived tax compliance is lower than actual tax compliance and German speaking taxpayers are perceived to be more compliant. In the dice game, Italian speakers report higher numbers than would be expected from a fair die.

Keywords: tax evasion, culture, beliefs, Honesty

Suggested Citation:

Cologna, Matthias and Scheuch, Robin and Scheuch, Robin, Culture and tax compliance: a lab-in-the-field experiment in South Tyrol (August 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5575464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5575464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Johannes ; Abeler , Armin Falk , ; Lorenz , Goette , David Huffman
Reference points and effort provision
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 2 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
Manuel ; Aepli , Andreas ; Kuhn , Jürg Schweri
Culture, norms, and the provision of training by employers: Evidence from the Swiss language border
Labour Economics , volume 73 Posted: 2021
James ; Alm , Michele ; Bernasconi , Susan ; Laury , Daniel J Lee , Sally Wallace
Culture, compliance, and confidentiality: Taxpayer behavior in the United States and Italy
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 140 , p. 176 - 196 Posted: 2017
James ; Alm , Kim M Bloomquist , Michael Mckee
On the external validity of laboratory tax compliance experiments
In Economic Inquiry , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 1170 - 1186 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies