Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

EU Report on Subject 2 (IFA 2025) “Improper use of Tax Treaties and Source Taxation: Policy, Practice and Beyond”

38 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Ivan Lazarov

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

The improper restriction of source taxation in the European Union arises primarily from the free movement of passive income within the internal market, while outbound payments to third countries remain uncoordinated. The legal framework, shaped by EU primary law, directives, and bilateral tax treaties, creates a complex environment where multinational enterprises (MNEs) can exploit tax disparities to minimise withholding tax obligations. 

The legal instruments addressing abusive tax structures operate on multiple levels: domestic anti-avoidance rules, the general EU law principle prohibiting abuse, and secondary law measures. Domestic rules face stringent constraints under EU law, as they cannot introduce presumptions of abuse and must be applied on a case-by-case basis. This limitation often renders automatic special anti-avoidance rules ineffective, particularly against conduit structures. General anti-avoidance rules provide a more flexible (and only) alternative but require significant administrative resources and remain subject to varying interpretations across Member States.

The relationship between EU law and bilateral double tax treaties further complicates the issue of source taxation. In cases where a directive mandates taxation, conflicting DTT provisions may be overridden under EU law, particularly for treaties concluded after EU accession. The Principal Purpose Test introduced in many DTTs as part of the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting framework is broader than the EU definition of abusive practices. However, EU law does not necessarily constrain the PPT’s application, as DTT benefits in the form of attribution of taxing rights generally remain outside the scope of EU law. Hence, there is no obligation to interpret the PPT in light of EU law.

Keywords: EU Tax Law, Anti-Avoidance, Source Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Lazarov, Ivan,

EU Report on Subject 2 (IFA 2025) “Improper use of Tax Treaties and Source Taxation: Policy, Practice and Beyond”

(January 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5586450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5586450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
41
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies