Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax in the Echo Chamber 

20 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2025 Last revised: 10 Oct 2025

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

The idea of an internet echo chamber – a metaphor first coined by Cass Sunstein – describes our tendency to surround ourselves online with people and content that reflect only our own viewpoints. Echo chambers not only promote polarization and extremism, but may threaten deliberation, problem-solving, and democracy. This Essay focuses on a particular type of echo chamber (sometimes called a “filter bubble”) unique to social media platforms like TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, and YouTube. One feature these platforms have in common is that they use machine-learning algorithms to select content for their users.  The algorithm displays content based on what it determines will keep the user engaged on the platform the longest, which, in turn, generates the most revenue for the platform. As a result, users see content that reflects what they tend to like, including the types of videos they have watched in the past, as well as content that is generally most engaging. Content might be deemed engaging by an algorithm because it is extreme or provocative, not necessarily because it is accurate or relevant. As a result of the operation of these machine-learning algorithms, social media users often find themselves in an echo chamber of content that not only reinforces their own beliefs, but may shift them towards more extreme beliefs.

 

This Essay explores the concept of social media echo chambers in the context of the tax law. Specifically, the Essay argues that a significant and growing number of taxpayers encounter information about the tax system through their interaction with social media content that is selected by machine-learning algorithms. Tax information, commentary, and advice abounds on social media, and nearly 80 percent of those considered Gen-Z or Millennials seek out tax and financial advice on social media platforms. Policymakers who are interested in keeping the public informed about the tax system, thereby promoting tax compliance, must grapple with the fact that these algorithms shape how people learn tax information. As the Essay will describe, baseline tax information among U.S. taxpayers is already very low, and the potential for tax echo chambers to circulate and reinforce bad information only exacerbates this issue. What’s more, outreach efforts to educate the public are unlikely to reach users who find themselves in certain tax echo chambers.

Keywords: Filter Bubbles, Social Media, Tax, Tax Policy, Echo Chambers, Machine Learning, Algorithms, AI

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney, Tax in the Echo Chamber  (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5587472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5587472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
77
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies