Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reactions as a Macroeconomic Barometer: Evidence from the TCJA

55 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Kevin Standridge

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Nathan Seegert

Northeastern University

Date Written: October 11, 2025

Abstract

We develop a new method to estimate the effects of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) on GDP that can be applied to both past and future reforms. Evaluating such reforms is difficult because provisions are broad and interrelated. To address this challenge, we combine abnormal stock returns during TCJA legislative windows with the pre-existing geographic distribution of firms to construct a county-level measure of exposure. Linking this measure to real outcomes, we estimate that the TCJA raised GDP by 1.8 percent, through higher investment, with gains concentrated in business income and older, wealthier counties.

Keywords: Market Reactions, TCJA, Taxes, Stock Returns

Suggested Citation:

Standridge, Kevin and Seegert, Nathan and Seegert, Nathan, Market Reactions as a Macroeconomic Barometer: Evidence from the TCJA (October 11, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5593450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5593450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
76
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies