Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Compliance, Social Norms, and Influencers

49 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2025

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

James Alm

Tulane University

Date Written: August 06, 2025

Abstract

While attaining perfect tax compliance is unachievable, more can and must be done. In the past, the country has relied primarily on a traditional system of sticks (e.g., audits and penalties) and carrots (e.g., refunds and whistleblower awards) to help narrow the “tax gap,” or the difference between what taxpayers owe in taxes and what they actually pay. Now, in the social media era, Congress and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) should look beyond these traditional enforcement mechanisms. To achieve an even higher voluntary compliance rate, this Article advocates for policymakers to invest greater resources to enhance the social norm related to tax compliance. While scholars have long suggested that social norms play a role in tax compliance, this Article suggests a revolutionary approach, one that attempts to foster a social norm of compliance by employing the use of social media influencers.

The internet and other electronic media have revolutionized and amplified the stunning impact that influencers can have. Virtually everyone, particularly the younger generation, is keenly aware of the dramatic impact that influencers can have in shaping social norms. Thus, now is the time for Congress and the IRS to capitalize on this power by strategically employing social media influencers. A well-crafted influencer campaign could educate taxpayers on how to fulfill their tax obligations, remind taxpayers of the laudatory impact of the tax system, and foster a positive social norm of compliance. Such a change in compliance orientation could help policymakers narrow the tax gap, yielding billions of dollars of additional tax revenue without the need to raise tax rates.

Keywords: Tax Compliance, Social Norms, 103 Neb. L. Rev. 595 (), Tax, influencers, social media, tax policy, taxation, behavioral law and economics, law and psychology

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney and Soled, Jay and Alm, James, Tax Compliance, Social Norms, and Influencers (August 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5595110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5595110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
25
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies