Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Dynamics of Disclosure Timing

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 211

50 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2025 Last revised: 16 Oct 2025

Yasmin Kuhlmann

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Joaquin Peris

Purdue University

Qian Zhang

Xiamen University

Date Written: October 15, 2025

Abstract

We examine a dynamic disclosure model where a manager interacts with a representative investor who exhibits loss aversion under Prospect Theory. A key focus of our analysis is the strategic timing of disclosure decisions in response to biased capital markets. We find that when facing such bias, the manager will disclose moderately bad news more promptly to dampen the negative price effect resulting from loss aversion, even if that means foregoing a higher nondisclosure price. This contrasts with previous findings of delayed disclosure in models with pending news and suggests that asymmetries in the timeliness of disclosing good versus bad news can arise endogenously as an optimal strategy. Empirically, we investigate how loss aversion influences disclosure timing using analyst forecasts and price target revisions. We find that firms facing higher loss aversion issue management guidance more frequently and release bad news more promptly. Furthermore, we document that preemptive disclosure is associated with a mitigated negative market response to bad news in the presence of prospect-theoretic markets. Our findings offer new insights into capital market effects of reporting asymmetries and the strategic timing of disclosures, adding to the literature on the behavioral foundations of financial reporting.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Disclosure Timing, Prospect Theory

Suggested Citation:

Kuhlmann, Yasmin and Peris, Joaquin and Zhang, Qian, Behavioral Dynamics of Disclosure Timing (October 15, 2025). TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 211, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5609092 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5609092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
65
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies