Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interaction of Tax Exemptions and Individual Tax Reform Preferences

IZA Discussion Paper No. 1543

11 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2005 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Salvatore Barbaro

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz - Department of Economic Theory

Jens Suedekum

Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf, Duesseldorf Institute for Competition Economics (DICE); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Abstract

The individual voting behavior on the abolishment of single income-tax exemptions crucially depends on how strongly agents are affected by other deduction possibilities that are not at stake in the reform plans of the government. The interactions depend (i) on the shape of the tax schedule, and (ii) on how the government wants to use the revenue that is generated by the cut of tax privileges. If government plans to increase redistribution in form of lump-sum transfers, then the political chances of a tax reform increase with the existence of other deduction possibilities under progressive taxation. With proportional taxation and a budget-enlargement policy, the voting decision depends only on the particular tax privileges at stake. Matters are different if the government wants to adopt a revenue-neutral tax-cut-cum-base-broadening policy. Except for strong progression, it is less likely that an agent supports the elimination of tax privileges the stronger she is affected by other exemptions in the back.

Keywords: income tax reform, public choice

JEL Classification: D72, D74

Suggested Citation:

Barbaro, Salvatore and Südekum, Jens, The Interaction of Tax Exemptions and Individual Tax Reform Preferences. IZA Discussion Paper No. 1543, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=695227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
S Barbaro , J Südekum
Reforming a complicated income-tax system: The political economics perspective Posted: 2004
R Fernandez , D Rodrik
Resistance to reform: Status quo bias in the presence of individual-specific uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 81 , issue 5 , p. 1146 - 1155 Posted: 1991
M J Graetz
Posted: 1999
Robert Hall , E Rabushka , A
The flat tax Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
663,174
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Primaries and the New Hampshire Effect

By Tilman Klumpp and Mattias Polborn

Equilibrium and Efficiency in the Tug-of-War

By Kai A. Konrad and Dan Kovenock

Equilibrium and Efficiency in the Tug-of-War

By Kai A. Konrad and Dan Kovenock

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies