Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of a Tax Reform: A Model with Measurement Error

IZA Discussion Paper No. 2337

9 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2006 Last revised: 7 May 2025

Rob Euwals

CPB Netherlands Bureau of Economic Policy Research; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Abstract

Parts of the Dutch tax reform 2001 are directed towards fiscal partners in a household and aim at lowering the marginal tax burden of the partner with the lowest (potential) labour income. An important goal of the reform is to increase the employment rate of these partners, which are in majority women. The Dutch Labour Force Survey 1992?2003 shows that the growth of the employment rate of married women after 2001 was larger than for a comparable group of single women. A statistical analysis using a model that accounts for measurement error shows that the growth of the employment rates of women without young children is in line with the predicted effect of the tax reform.

Keywords: evaluation, employment, tax reform

JEL Classification: C20, H31, J22

Suggested Citation:

Euwals, Rob, Evaluation of a Tax Reform: A Model with Measurement Error. IZA Discussion Paper No. 2337, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=937375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
RANK
649,413
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Part-Time Pay Penalty for Women in Britain

By Alan Manning and Barbara Petrongolo

The Part-Time Pay Penalty for Women in Britain

By Alan Manning and Barbara Petrongolo

Why Do Part-Time Workers Earn Less? The Role of Worker and Job Skills

By Barry T. Hirsch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies