Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers and Barriers to Management Accounting Change

AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper

47 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2007 Last revised: 5 Nov 2007

Felix Schwarze

Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Finance; E-Finance Lab

Kim Wuellenweber

University Frankfurt - E-Finance Lab

Andreas Hackethal

Goethe University Frankfurt - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Date Written: November 1, 2007

Abstract

Empirical studies report a gap between theoretical concepts of management accounting and the actual practice in organizations. Specifically, there is a virtual absence of literature on the individual factors that drive or hinder the adoption of sophisticated management accounting concepts. In this paper, we analyze drivers and inhibitors of management accounting change from a managerial perspective. Our research model is an adoption of the theory of planned behavior and reasoned action (Ajzen and Fishbein, 1980: Understanding Attitudes and Predicting Social Behavior. Prentice Hall: Englewood Cliffs, NY). Based on survey data of 161 banks in German-speaking countries, we show that management accounting change is driven by board expectations, transparency, and profitability. IT capabilities and behavioral control enable change. Only organizational change impedes the adoption of sophisticated methods. The factors costs and staff do not have a significant impact on manager's attitude. Moreover, in a group analysis, we analyze if the importance of drivers and barriers differs between banks with a focus on sophisticated financial measures compared to banks with a focus on a broad set of non-financial measures. We find that banks which manage by means of financial measures are more profitability driven by board and managerial encouragement. Banks using non-financial measures tend to increase transparency but struggle with organizational change.

Keywords: management accounting, accounting change, bank, field study

JEL Classification: M40, M46, G21

Suggested Citation:

Schwarze, Felix and Wuellenweber, Kim and Hackethal, Andreas, Drivers and Barriers to Management Accounting Change (November 1, 2007). AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1003371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1003371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Agarwal , J Prasad
Are Individual Differences Germane to the Acceptance of New Information Technologies? Decision Science , volume 30 , p. 361 - 391 Posted: 1999
Crossref
I Ajzen
From intentions to actions: A theory of planned behavior , p. 11 - 39 Posted: 1985
Crossref
I Ajzen
Attitudes, traits, and actions: A theory of planned behavior
Advances in experimental social psychology , p. 1 - 63 Posted: 1987
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior. Organization, Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,628
RANK
13,912
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Do We Know About Capital Structure? Some Evidence from International Data

By Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales

The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field

By John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey

Capital Structure Puzzle

By Stewart C. Myers

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies