Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study of the Factors Affecting the Implementation Success of German Cost Accounting Methods

AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper

55 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2007

Kip R. Krumwiede

Virginia Commonwealth University

Augustin Suessmair

University of Lueneburg

Jason MacDonald

Boise State University - Department of Marketing and Finance

Date Written: July 30, 2007

Abstract

Grenzplankostenrechnung (known as GPK in the U.S. and literally translated as marginal planned cost accounting) has been touted recently in the U.S. practitioner literature as a superior costing approach. This approach integrates many homogeneous cost centers with flexible budgeting, variance analysis, fixed and variable cost separation, and variable costing all at the cost center level to achieve a high-level of cost control and accuracy. However, there is virtually no empirical research in the German literature about their impact on cost system or firm performance. This exploratory study provides a working definition of GPK for research and tests conceptual path models of antecedent and process factors affecting its adoption and implementation within German-speaking firms. Based primarily SEM analysis of survey data, there is support that both contextual and cultural factors lead to antecedent conditions that make GPK more likely to be adopted. Further analysis of firms who have adopted GPK suggests that GPK accuracy is more a function of top management support, while the number of GPK practices implemented is more a function of the capability of the information system. Also, the perceived value of the overall cost accounting system appears to be related more to the quality of the information system than to GPK implementation.

Keywords: Grenzplankostenrechnung, German cost accounting, SEM, management accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Krumwiede, Kip R. and Suessmair, Augustin and MacDonald, Jason, An Exploratory Study of the Factors Affecting the Implementation Success of German Cost Accounting Methods (July 30, 2007). AAA 2008 MAS Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1003833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1003833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
S L Ahire , D Y Golhar , M A Waller
Development and validation of TQM implementation constructs
Decision Sciences , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 56 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S W Anderson , S M Young
The Impact of contextual and process factors on the evaluation of activity-based costing systems
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 525 - 539 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R R Bagozzi , Y Yi
On the use of structural equation models in experimental designs
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 284 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R M Barron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
975
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,279
RANK
54,219
4 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies