Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behavioral Responses to Measurement Diversity in Individual Incentive Plans: Role Conflict, Role Ambiguity, and Model-of-Man

44 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2007

Lorenzo Patelli

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 2007

Abstract

Prior empirical accounting research on the relationship between measurement diversity and performance provides conflicting results. In particular, most studies do not find a significant direct effect and few studies investigate the intervening effect of subordinates' behaviors. This paper examines the behavioral responses to individual incentive plans balancing multiple performance measures. Specifically, I examine the effect of the number of performance measures, concentration of performance weights, and reliance on non-financial performance measures on role conflict and role ambiguity for 243 individual short-term incentive plans provided by two different organizations. I use proprietary data to construct three variables for measurement diversity and survey data involving 415 individuals to capture their behavioral responses to incentive plans. I measure individual performance based on perceptual and objective variables. Consistent with role theory, the analyses reveal that measurement diversity leads to role conflict experienced by the subordinates with a negative effect on individual performance. Task complexity proxied by subordinate's job-grade is associated with the adoption of more performance measures and more financial indicators. Organizational identification proxied by subordinate's value commitment does not seem to moderate the relationship between incentives and individual behavior, whereas situational factors proxied by a dichotomous variable for the two different organizational settings significantly contribute to explain different behaviors. The empirical results have implications for the design of performance measurement and evaluation systems, especially for the selection of performance measures and their weighting in a system of multiple measures, and help to understand better the performance implications of incentive plans encompassing measurement diversity.

Keywords: measurement diversity, incentive plans, role theory

Suggested Citation:

Patelli, Lorenzo, Behavioral Responses to Measurement Diversity in Individual Incentive Plans: Role Conflict, Role Ambiguity, and Model-of-Man (July 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1004189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1004189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
A A Atkinson , W Shaffir
Standards for field research in management accounting
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 41 - 68 Posted: 1998
R D Banker , H Chang , M Pizzini
The Balanced Scorecard: Judgmental Effects of Performance Measures Linked to Strategy
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R D Banker , G Potter , D Srinivansan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plan that includes nonfinancial performance measures
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Byrne
Structural Equation Modeling with AMOS Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,873
RANK
159,842
1 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Subjectivity and the Weighting of Performance Measures: Evidence from a Balanced Scorecard

By Christopher D. Ittner, David F. Larcker, ...

Causes and Effects of Subjectivity in Incentives

By Michael Gibbs, Kenneth A. Merchant, ...

Discretion in Executive Incentive Contracts: Theory and Evidence

By Kevin J. Murphy and Paul Oyer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies