Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Intangible Assets: Estimating Late-Stage Development Cost of Pharmaceutical R&D

52 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2007

Giampiero Favato

Institute of Leadership and Management in Health - Kingston University

Roger Mills

Henley Management College - Henley Centre for Value Improvement (HCVI)

Date Written: August 2007

Abstract

Policy makers need reliable estimates of direct costs of pharmaceutical R&D, in order to contain health-care costs and at the same time maintain a supportive environment for investment in research.

This paper evaluates the application of parametric estimating methods to the late stage clinical development of new drugs, in order to estimate the direct costs of clinical trials from the linear relationship of two non-cost variables: the standardised minimal significant clinical outcome and the sample-size required to reach statistical significance. The number of patients enrolled in clinical trials represents the closest proxy to the total cost of clinical research, as the protocol requirements of randomised studies minimise the cost differences among therapeutic areas.

The first example of randomised experimental research in Life Science cost accounting; this study can be duplicated by virtually anyone who can access a scientific library, without the significant constraint of obtaining proprietary information from pharmaceutical companies.

Keywords: valuation, intangible, assets, pharmaceutical, development, cost

JEL Classification: L65, O32

Suggested Citation:

Favato, Giampiero and Mills, Roger, Valuation of Intangible Assets: Estimating Late-Stage Development Cost of Pharmaceutical R&D (August 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1012639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1012639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C H Achen
Interpreting and using regression Posted: 1982
Crossref
A Alger
Trials and tribulations, Forbes Posted: 1999-05-17
J A Barber , S G Thompson
Analysis and interpretation of cost data in randomised controlled trials: a review of published studies
BMJ , volume 317 Posted: 1195
Crossref
W D Berry
Understanding Regression Assumptions , volume 92 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,191
RANK
106,613
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies