Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Alternative Approach to Firms' Evaluation: Expert Systems and Fuzzy Logic

International Journal of Information Technology and Decision Making, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 195-225, March 2006

22 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2020

Carlo Alberto Magni

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - School of Doctorate E4E (Engineering for Economics-Economics for Engineering)

Stefano Malagoli

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE)

Giovanni Mastroleo

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Abstract

Discounted Cash Flow techniques are the generally accepted methods for valuing firms. Such methods do not provide explicit acknowledgment of the value determinants and overlook their interrelations. This paper proposes a different method of firm valuation based on fuzzy logic and expert systems. It does represent a conceptual transposition of Discounted Cash Flow techniques but, unlike the latter, it takes explicit account of quantitative and qualitative variables and their mutual integration. Financial, strategic and business aspects are considered by focusing on twenty-nine value drivers that are combined together via if-then rules. The output of the system is a real number in the interval [0,1], which represents the value-creation power of the firm. To corroborate the model a sensitivity analysis is conducted. The system may be used for rating and ranking firms as well as for assessing the impact of managers' decisions on value creation and as a tool of corporate governance.

Keywords: firms' evaluation, fuzzy logic, expert system, rating, acquisition, sensitivity analysis, pricing

JEL Classification: C8, C80, C88, G3, G31, G32, G34, M2

Suggested Citation:

Magni, Carlo Alberto and Malagoli, Stefano and Mastroleo, Giovanni, An Alternative Approach to Firms' Evaluation: Expert Systems and Fuzzy Logic. International Journal of Information Technology and Decision Making, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 195-225, March 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1031965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M G Abdel-Kader , D Dugdale , P Taylor
Investment Decisions in Advanced Manufacturing Technology: A Fuzzy Set Theory Approach Posted: 1998
J B Barney
Strategic factor markets: Expectations, luck, and business
Management Science , volume 32 , p. 1231 - 1241 Posted: 1986
Crossref
J B Barney
Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J B Barney
Is the resource-based 'view' a useful perspective for strategic management research? Yes , volume 26 , p. 41 - 57 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
626
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,360
RANK
97,687
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Fuzzy Expert System for Solving Real-Option Decision Processes

By Carlo Alberto Magni, Giovanni Mastroleo, ...

Strategic Options and Expert Systems: A Fruitful Marriage

By Carlo Alberto Magni, Giovanni Mastroleo, ...

The Use of Fuzzy Logic and Expert Systems for Rating and Pricing Firms: A New Perspective on Valuation

By Stefano Malagoli, Carlo Alberto Magni, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies