Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconciling Archival and Experimental Research: Does Internal Audit Contribution Affect the External Audit Fee?

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Vol. 23, No. 2, 2011

37 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2007 Last revised: 5 Feb 2015

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Consistent with guidelines from external auditing standards, a large body of experimental and survey research suggests that an internal audit function (IAF) can contribute in ways that lead to decreased external audit fees; however, research using archival methodologies generally finds either no relation or a positive relation between proxies for IAF contribution and external audit fees. In this paper, we provide new evidence using a unique and previously unavailable data set to develop archival proxies of internal audit contribution. We find that SAS No. 65-based proxies for the contribution of internal audit are associated with lower unexpected external audit fees. We show that proxies used in prior archival studies are limited in their ability to capture the IAF’s potential contribution to external auditing, and suggest that the unavailability of high quality proxies could help explain the divergent findings of experimental and survey-based studies in relation to archival studies in this area. In addition, our results suggest that fee reductions are more strongly associated with the direct assistance of, than with reliance on work previously performed by, the internal auditor. Overall, our results provide evidence consistent with external auditing standards and with results from prior experimental and survey studies suggesting that IAFs can indeed contribute in ways that lead to lower external audit fees.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Costs, External Audit Fee, SAS No. 65, and AS 5

JEL Classification: M49, M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Prawitt, Douglas F. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wood, David A., Reconciling Archival and Experimental Research: Does Internal Audit Contribution Affect the External Audit Fee? (2011). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Vol. 23, No. 2, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1034208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1034208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M Adams , M Sherris , M Hossain
The determinants of external audit costs in the New Zealand life insurance industry
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 86 Posted: 1997
Crossref
K Ahmed
The pricing of audit services in local councils: Evidence from New Zealand
Accounting Research Journal , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2000
American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA). 1997. Statements on Auditing Standards
D Anderson , J R Francis , D J Stokes
Auditing, directorships, and the demand for monitoring
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 353 - 375 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,768
RANK
14,761
18 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies