Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stale and Scale Effects in Markets-Based Accounting Research: Evidence from the Valuation of Dividends

European Accounting Review, Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 23-55, 2014

63 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2012 Last revised: 4 Sep 2014

Igor Goncharov

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

David Veenman

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School (ABS)

Abstract

This study revisits prior research on the valuation of dividends in an accounting-based valuation framework. Using a battery of tests, we show that market value deflation is essential in market-based tests of dividend displacement and signaling because it controls for ‘stale’ information in addition to scale (size) differences across firms. For U.S. firms, we show that after controlling for ‘stale’ information, the empirical association between dividends and market values switches from positive to negative. This switch is not explained by scale differences across firms. Further, we show that after controlling for staleness, the valuation of dividends remains positive for European firms. This result is explained by the relatively stronger association of dividends with future earnings in these settings (i.e., signaling). Lastly, our country-specific estimates of dividend valuation provide a potentially valuable index for studies aimed at examining the effects of accounting and securities regulation on information asymmetries in an international context.

Keywords: Scale Effect, Valuation, Dividends, Signaling

JEL Classification: M41, C10, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Goncharov, Igor and Veenman, David, Stale and Scale Effects in Markets-Based Accounting Research: Evidence from the Valuation of Dividends. European Accounting Review, Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 23-55, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1072804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1072804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M A Petersen
Estimating standard errors in finance panel data sets: comparing approaches
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 435 - 480 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Pinkowitz , R Stulz , R Williamson
Does the contribution of corporate cash holdings and dividends to firm value depend on governance? A cross-country analysis
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 6 , p. 2725 - 2751 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P F Pope , P Wang
Earnings components, accounting bias and equity valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Powell , J Shi , T Smith , R Whaley
Common divisors, payout persistence, and return predictability
International Review of Finance , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 335 - 357 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,981
RANK
84,001
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies