Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Strengths and Weaknesses of Archival, Behavioral, and Qualitative Research Methods: Recognizing the Potential Benefits of Triangulation

Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, Vol. 11, 2008

43 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2008

Amy Hageman

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Abstract

This paper discusses the benefits, limitations and challenges in developing research projects that integrate a combination of archival, behavioral, and qualitative research methods. By demonstrating the inherent strengths and weaknesses of a using a single method in isolation, this paper aims to broaden our understanding of why and how research that examines various issues from the different perspectives is richer than employing any single method and enhances our understanding of a given accounting phenomenon. This paper also discusses how investigating an issue through multiple research methods can help researchers improve the generalizability of findings and present a panoramic view of a particular phenomenon.

Keywords: Research Methods, Triangulation, Doctoral Education

JEL Classification: C00, M49, I20

Suggested Citation:

Hageman, Amy, A Review of the Strengths and Weaknesses of Archival, Behavioral, and Qualitative Research Methods: Recognizing the Potential Benefits of Triangulation. Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, Vol. 11, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1099989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget…': The organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Annisette
Imperialism and the professions: The education and certification of accountants in Trinidad and Tobago. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 25 , p. 631 - 659 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Arnold
Behavioral research opportunities: Understanding the impact of enterprise systems
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Arnold , P A Collier , S A Leech , S G Sutton
The effect of experience and complexity on order and recency bias in decision making by professional accountants
Accounting and Finance , volume 40 , p. 109 - 134 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,503
RANK
13,969
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies