Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetry in Earnings Timeliness and Persistence: A Simultaneous Equations Approach

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2008 Last revised: 20 Dec 2011

William H. Beaver

Stanford University

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: December 20, 2010

Abstract

This study addresses simultaneity bias in piecewise linear forms of the earnings-return relation. We specify an overidentified system of simultaneous equations that incorporates both asymmetric earnings timeliness and asymmetric earnings persistence specifications, and implement two-stage least squares for this piecewise linear system. Estimation of such a system that is piecewise linear in endogenous variables presents several distinctive issues for which there exists no precedent in the accounting literature. Findings provide evidence that the asymmetric timeliness specification is particularly affected by simultaneity, and that failing to correct for simultaneity results in coefficient estimates that understate the degree of asymmetric earnings timeliness. Moreover, our findings suggest that asymmetric earnings timeliness has dissipated, not increased, over time when simultaneity is taken into account.

Keywords: Conservatism, Earnings Persistence, Returns-Earnings Relation

JEL Classification: M41, M44, C33

Suggested Citation:

Beaver, William H. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Owens, Edward, Asymmetry in Earnings Timeliness and Persistence: A Simultaneous Equations Approach (December 20, 2010). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1115486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R Ball , R Bushman , F Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 247 - 288 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , G Sadka , R Sadka
Aggregate earnings and asset prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1097 - 1133 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
980
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,075
RANK
53,831
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies