Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Research Contributions of Accounting, Organizations and Society, 1976-1984

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 12, No. 2, 1987

12 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2008

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

John C. Gardner

University of New Orleans - Department of Accounting

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Abstract

This paper evaluates the research contributions of Accounting, Organizations and Society (AOS) during the years 1976-1984. We begin by investigating whether AOS has achieved its research objectives as defined by its "aims and scope". We then examine two major attributes of AOS articles, the foundation disciplines they draw upon and the research methods they employ. Next we use citation analysis to determine the impact AOS's research has had upon research published in the social sciences. Finally, we identify those AOS articles which have exerted the greatest impact on the social sciences.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D. and Gardner, John C. and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., An Analysis of the Research Contributions of Accounting, Organizations and Society, 1976-1984. Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 12, No. 2, 1987, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1121401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
360,957
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Familiarity with and Perceived Quality of Accounting Journals: Views of Senior Accounting Faculty in Leading U. S. MBA Programs

By Lawrence D. Brown and Ronald J. Huefner

Faculty Perceptions and Readership Patterns of Accounting Journals: A Global View

By Apostolos Ballas and Vasilis Theoharakis

A New Method for Ranking Academic Journals in Accounting and Finance

By Vivien A. Beattie and Alan Goodacre

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies