Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals Quality, Stock Returns, and Macroeconomic Conditions

Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 3

52 Pages Posted: 14 May 2008 Last revised: 10 Dec 2014

Dongcheol Kim

Korea University Business School

Yaxuan Qi

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

Date Written: September 2009

Abstract

This study examines whether and how earnings quality, measured as accruals quality (AQ), affects the cost of equity capital. Using two-stage cross-sectional regression tests, we find that the AQ risk factor is significantly priced, after controlling for low-priced stocks. This result is robust in tests using individual stocks, various portfolio formations, and different beta estimations. Furthermore, we show that AQ and its pricing effect systematically vary with business cycles and macroeconomic variables. In particular, this pricing effect is prominent in total AQ and innate AQ but not in discretionary AQ. The risk premium associated with AQ exists only in economic expansion but not in recession periods. Poorer AQ firms are more vulnerable to macroeconomic shocks. The risk premium and the dispersion of AQ are also related to future economic activity. Overall, our results suggest that AQ contributes to the cost of equity capital and that its pricing effect is associated with fundamental risk.

Keywords: Accruals quality, Low-priced stocks, Risk factor models, Macroeconomic conditions, Business cycle

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Dongcheol and Qi, Yaxuan, Accruals Quality, Stock Returns, and Macroeconomic Conditions (September 2009). Accounting Review, Vol. 85, No. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1132821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1132821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
D Kim
The errors-in-variables problem in the cross-section of expected stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1905 - 1934 Posted: 1995
Crossref
_______
A reexamination of size, book-to-market, and earnings-price in the cross-section of expected stock returns
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 463 - 489 Posted: 1997
R Lambert , C Leuz , R Verrecchia
Accounting information, disclosure and the cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 385 - 420 Posted: 2007
Crossref
______ ________ , _____
Information asymmetry, information precision, and the cost of capital Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
764
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,305
RANK
75,578
9 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies