Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowledge and Venture Funding: Complementarities and Financial Contracts

Industrial and Corporate Change, Vol. 16, No. 5, pp. 851-873, 2007

Posted: 22 Jun 2008

Dario Peirone

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 2007

Abstract

In this article I analyse venture capital finance using the tools provided by the literature on the economics of innovation, in particular the notion of localised technological knowledge and the resource-based theory of the firm, to build a model of financial contracting. This entails that, instead of looking exclusively at financial indicators or monetary incentives, I will deepen the knowledge connection between the venture capitalist and the financed firm, as the benchmark to understand the potential of this source of finance. Consistent with evidence regarding venture funding, the model portrays a separation between a financial and a non-financial part of the venture investment, which is reflected in a dichotomy among the investors. In fact, the model shows that the success of a venture program is strictly linked to the knowledge flow inspired and reinforced by the complementarities between the knowledge bases of entrepreneur and venture capitalist, instead to a particular financing scheme as sustained by most of the literature. The model can also suggest a new methodology to analyse other intermediaries, always exploiting the central role of knowledge in designing financial contracts.

Suggested Citation:

Peirone, Dario, Knowledge and Venture Funding: Complementarities and Financial Contracts (October 2007). Industrial and Corporate Change, Vol. 16, No. 5, pp. 851-873, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1149229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/icc/dtm029
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies