Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying a Systems Mindset to Stock Valuation

25 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2008 Last revised: 25 Jul 2008

Bartley J. Madden

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: July 16, 2008

Abstract

Research on the life-cycle valuation model began in 1969 at Callard, Madden & Associates in order to improve stock selection and investment returns. Beginning in the mid-1980s, the model was extensively refined and commercialized by HOLT Value Associates. Today, many institutional money managers use the life-cycle valuation model, as well as relevant data from the global database of 20,000 companies in 60 countries provided by Credit Suisse HOLT.

This is a review of the five important choices that guided this 40-year research journey. A systems mindset that stressed intensive measurement and experimentation with variables was especially instrumental to the evolution of the life-cycle model. Systems thinking led to distinct departures from mainstream finance practices. For example, the life-cycle model uses a discount rate that is dependent upon the procedure used to forecast a firm's long-term, net cash receipt stream.

Based on this research experience, I offer suggestions about the potential evolution of a new research program to address additional important, practical needs.

Keywords: Valuation, CFROI, Life Cycle, Research Methodology, Systems Thinking

JEL Classification: B40, C9, D84, G12, G30

Suggested Citation:

Madden, Bartley J., Applying a Systems Mindset to Stock Valuation (July 16, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1156524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1156524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
References Alessandri , M Todd , N David , Diane M Ford , Karyl B Lander , Marilyn Leggio , Taylor
Managing risk and uncertainty in complex capital projects
Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance December , volume 44 , issue 5 , p. 751 - 767 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Robert J Atra , Rawley Thomas
The Fundamentals of Automated DCF Modeling Posted: 2008
William J Baumol
The Free-Market Innovation Machine: Analyzing the Growth Miracle of Capitalism Posted: 2002
Richard A Brealey , C Stewart , Franklin Myers , Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
598
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,057
RANK
103,625
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Big Business Stability and Economic Growth: Is What's Good for General Motors Good for America?

By Kathy Fogel, Randall Morck, ...

Big Business Stability and Economic Growth: Is What's Good for General Motors Good for America?

By Kathy Fogel, Randall Morck, ...

Uncertainty and Valuations

By Martijn Cremers and Hongjun Yan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies