Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment Testing Under IFRS - A False Impossible Shore?

34 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2008

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: July 24, 2008

Abstract

The transition to IFRS based reporting has resulted in fundamental departures from many of the long accepted norms embedded in indigenous GAAP systems now superseded in IFRS adopting jurisdictions. The rules relating to goodwill accounting, measurement and reporting represent an excellent case in point, the traditionally dominant capitalise and amortise regime having been disposed of in favour of an impairment testing regime pursuant to which periodic amortisation charges are no longer required. There has been much criticism of this new impairment testing regime, principally along the lines that it results in an increased potential for opportunism in financial statement preparation due to the subjective and unverifiable nature of a range of judgements necessary to the execution of the impairment testing process. In this paper, we add to the extant literature's catalogue of concerns by documenting systematic non compliance with the disclosure requirements of AASB 136 - Impairment of Assets. We argue that a key problem resulting from this phenomenon is a decline in financial statement comparability. At the policy level, we raise questions as to the implications of the complexity of the IFRS based impairment testing regime both from the preparer and audit perspective.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairment, Financial reporting, Creative accounting, Australia

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel, Goodwill Impairment Testing Under IFRS - A False Impossible Shore? (July 24, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1173382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1173382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
D Anantharaman
Has SFAS 142 Diminished the Reliability of Goodwill Writeoffs?" Columbia Business School Working Paper Posted: 2007
A Beatty , J Weber
Accounting Discretion in Fair Value Estimates: An Examination of SFAS 142 Goodwill Impairments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Briloff
Unaccountable Accounting -Games Accountants Play Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Canning
The Economics of Accountancy Posted: 1929
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,749
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,141
RANK
11,134
26 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies