Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methodological Approaches in Brazilian Accounting Research: Review of Studies on Financial Accounting

25 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2008

Antonio Carlos Coelho

UFC - FEAAC - PPAC

Dione Olesczuk Soutes

State University of Parana

Gilberto Martins

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: July 24, 2008

Abstract

This research adopts an epistemological focus to reveal inferences regarding accounting research carried out in Brazil. The methodological approaches employed by Accounting Sciences researchers that presented work at the 2005 and 2006 Meetings of ANPAD (the National Association of Post-Graduation and Research in Administration) are analyzed and characterized in the sub-area of accounting for external users. The analysis of the content of the work proceeds through the technique of characterization, the dimensions of which are based on a theoretical platform that defines the principal methodological approaches used in the social sciences. The results point to the predominance of the empiricist and positivist approaches, which set the scene for the current state of accounting research in this country. Nevertheless, it can also be observed that studies of a normative nature are still relevant, as are studies that lack the necessary methodological maturity, as not one of the studies specified which approach was used. Also the results demonstrate the examination of all-purpose financial statements as predominant; also the research centers where the work originated was taken into account, their location being concentrated in just four universities in the Center-South region (67% of the articles).

Keywords: Methodological Approach, Accounting Research, Epistemology, Emerging Markets, Brazil

JEL Classification: M40, I21, N36

Suggested Citation:

Coelho, Antonio Carlos Dias and Soutes, Dione Olesczuk and de Andrade Martins, Gilberto, Methodological Approaches in Brazilian Accounting Research: Review of Studies on Financial Accounting (July 24, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1175320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1175320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Laurence Bardin
Análise de Conteúdo. 3ª edição. Lisboa: Edições 70 LDA Posted: 2004
Paul Bruyne , De
Crossref
Jacques ; Herman , Marc Schoutheete , De
Dinâmica da pesquisa em ciências sociais: os pólos da prática metodológica Posted: 1986
Auguste Comte
Curso de Filosofia Positiva
Os pensadores. São Paulo. Abril Cultural Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,811
RANK
390,788
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies