Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Correcting for Cross-Sectional and Time-Series Dependence in Accounting Research

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008 Last revised: 2 Nov 2009

Ian D. Gow

Unaffiliated Author

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Daniel J. Taylor

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: August 4, 2009

Abstract

We review and evaluate the methods commonly used in the accounting literature to correct for cross-sectional and time-series dependence. While much of the accounting literature studies settings where variables are cross-sectionally and serially correlated, we find that the extant methods are not robust to both forms of dependence. Contrary to claims in the literature, we find that the Z2-statistic and Newey-West corrected Fama-MacBeth do not correct for both cross-sectional and time-series dependence. We show that extant methods produce misspecified test statistics in common accounting research settings, and that correcting for both forms of dependence substantially alters inferences reported in the literature. Specifically, several findings in the cost of equity capital literature, the cost of debt literature, and the conservatism literature appear not to be robust to the use of well-specified test statistics.

Keywords: cross-sectional dependence, time-series dependence, autocorrelation, Fama-MacBeth, Newey-West, cluster-robust standard errors, cost of capital, credit ratings, conservatism

JEL Classification: C12, C15, C23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gow, Ian D. and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Taylor, Daniel, Correcting for Cross-Sectional and Time-Series Dependence in Accounting Research (August 4, 2009). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1175614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Is the U.S. stock market myopic?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Firms' voluntary recognition of stock-based compensation expense
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 150 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,776
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,654
RANK
6,721
45 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies