Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multilayered Perceptron Approach to the Prediction of the SEC's Investigation Targets

IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, Vol. 7, No. 5, pp.1286-1290, September 1996

11 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2008 Last revised: 4 Jan 2019

Taek M. Kwon

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Electrical and Computer Engineering

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: July 26, 2008

Abstract

This paper predates the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 704: Study of Enforcement Actions) by six years. We used seven red flags which are composed of four financial red flags and three non-financial turnover red flags in order to predict the targets of the SEC's investigation of fraudulent financial reporting. The red flags are computed over 70 firms spread among various industrial sectors, and form the base data that is used used for developing the computational prediction model. Multilayered perceptron (MLP) computation of this data was able to predict the targets of the SEC investigation with an average of 88% accuracy in the cross validation test.

Another interesting finding is that the non-financial data such as the frequency of turnovers of CEOs, CFOs, and auditors of a firm can be more informative than the financial data alone in predicting which firms are likely to engage in fraudulent financial reporting. However both types of information are necessary to attain high levels of prediction accuracy.

Keywords: SEC, Financial Reporting Fraud, Red Flags, Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, Financial Engineering, Neural Networks, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C45, G18, G28, G38, K22, K23, L51, M41, P16

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Taek M. and Feroz, Ehsan H., A Multilayered Perceptron Approach to the Prediction of the SEC's Investigation Targets (July 26, 2008). IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, Vol. 7, No. 5, pp.1286-1290, September 1996 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1179275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,831
RANK
605,468
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies