Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for In-Process Research and Development Costs

Journal of Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 5, Fall 2003

14 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008

Linda A. Hall

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: Fall 2003

Abstract

This paper examines accounting for research and development costs and specifically the treatment of those costs acquired in business combinations that are accounted for as in-process research and development (IPR&D). Both the SEC and the FASB expressed concerns over an increase in IPR&D costs immediately charged against earnings in purchase-type business combinations in the past decade. The AICPA formed an Emerging Issues Task Force to address these concerns and compiled a set of best practices with respect to recording and reporting IPR&D costs. With recent changes in accounting for business combinations and the treatment of goodwill created in acquisitions, readers of financial statements should be aware of the potential impact of IPR&D costs on reported earnings in the year of combination as well as in subsequent years. Examples of the reporting of IPR&D costs are drawn from recent business combinations in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries.

Suggested Citation:

Hall, Linda A., Accounting for In-Process Research and Development Costs (Fall 2003). Journal of Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 11, No. 5, Fall 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1183679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1183679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Abgenix
Abgenix
Annual Report Posted: 2000
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Posted: 2001
Crossref
a Business Combination to Be Used in Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices, and Pharmaceutical Industries
Crossref
Amgen
Annual Report Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,498
RANK
168,133
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Innovation Finance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies