Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Research Alliances on Measures of Future Financial Market and Operating Performance Risk of Biotechnology Firms

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

65 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2008

Carolyn M. Callahan

University of Louisville - College of Business

Emily Keenan

Ohio University - School of Accountancy

Rodney Smith

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 3, 2008

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the impact of research alliances on measures of firm level financial market and operating performance risk in the biotechnology industry. We focus on biotechnology firms since research alliances have played an important role in the development and commercialization of new products, processes and technologies in that industry. Although managers suggest that a major reason to enter into alliances is to reduce operating risk, our paper is the first (to our knowledge) to examine directly this conjecture by investigating the link between alliance activity and risk from multiple perspectives. We find that for research focused firms, market and operating risk increase as their alliance activity increases. For firms which outsource research activities, however, market and operating risk decrease as alliance activity increases. The findings of our paper have the potential to help managers better understand both the benefits and costs of entering into alliance relationships and investors better evaluate the impact of alliance announcements on investment opportunities in biotechnology firms.

Keywords: R&D, Alliances, Risk, Performance

JEL Classification: L89, M41, G19

Suggested Citation:

Callahan, Carolyn M. and Keenan, Emily and Smith, Rodney, The Impact of Research Alliances on Measures of Future Financial Market and Operating Performance Risk of Biotechnology Firms (August 3, 2008). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1199362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1199362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Obha , P Figueiredo
Innovative capabilities and strategic alliances: Who is gaining what in the pharmaceutical industry
Journal of Commercial Biotechnology , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 282 Posted: 2007
M Patterson
Accelerating Innovation: Improving the Process of Product Development Posted: 1993
Pricewaterhousecoopers
Strategic alliances come up 7's for technology businesses: 77% Involved; Average participant active in 7, PwC Finds Posted: 2001
G P Pisano
Science business: The promise, the reality, and the future of biotechnology Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,403
RANK
298,527
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

In Search of New Foundations

By Luigi Zingales

In Search of New Foundations

By Luigi Zingales

Subjective Performance Measures in Optimal Incentive Contracts

By George P. Baker, Robert S. Gibbons, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies