Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling the Long Run: Valuation in Dynamic Stochastic Economies

84 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2008

Lars Peter Hansen

University of Chicago - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 5, 2008

Abstract

I explore the equilibrium value implications of economic models that incorporate reactions to a stochastic environment. I propose a dynamic value decomposition (DVD) designed to distinguish components of an underlying economic model that influence values over long horizons from components that impact only the short run. To quantify the role of parameter sensitivity and to impute long-term risk prices, I develop an associated perturbation technique. Finally, I use DVD methods to study formally some example economies and to speculate about others. A DVD is enabled by constructing operators indexed by the elapsed time between the date of pricing and the date of the future payoff (i.e., the future realization of a consumption claim). Thus formulated, methods from applied mathematics permit me to characterize valuation behavior as the time between price determination and payoff realization becomes large. An outcome of this analysis is the construction of a multiplicative martingale component of a process that is used to represent valuation in a dynamic economy with stochastic growth. I contrast the differences in the applicability between this multiplicative martingale method and an additive martingale method familiar from time series analysis that is used to identify shocks with long-run economic consequences.

Keywords: asset pricing, stochastic growth, risk-return tradeoff, long run

JEL Classification: C00, E44, G12

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, Lars Peter, Modeling the Long Run: Valuation in Dynamic Stochastic Economies (August 5, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1202182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1202182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Fernando Alvarez , Urban Jermann
Efficiency, Equilibrium, and Asset Pricing with Risk of Default , p. 775 - 798 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Fernando Alvarez , Urban J Jermann
Using Asset Prices to Measure the Welfare Cost of Business Cycles
Journal of Political Economy , volume 112 , issue 6 , p. 1223 - 1256 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Evan W Anderson , Lars Peter Hansen , Thomas J Sargent
A Quartet of Semigroups for Model Specification, Robustness, Prices of Risk, and Model Detection
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 1 , p. 69 - 123 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Balaji , Sean P Srinivasan , Meyn
Multiplicative Ergodicity and Large Deviations for an Irreduciable Markov Chain
Stochastic Processes and their Applications , volume 90 , p. 123 - 144 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
368,155
1 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Predictive Regressions

By Robert F. Stambaugh

Consumption, Aggregate Wealth and Expected Stock Returns

By Martin Lettau and Sydney C. Ludvigson

Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles

By Ravi Bansal and Amir Yaron

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies