Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Repurchases, the Clustering Problem, and the Free Cash Flow Hypothesis

Financial Management, Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2008

Chuan-San Wang

National Taiwan University - The Department and Graduate Institute of Accounting

Norman C. Strong

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Samuel Tung

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Date Written: August 5, 2008

Abstract

We examine the market reaction to announcements of actual share repurchases, events that cluster both within and across firms. Using a multivariate regression model, we find that the market reacts positively to the events, indicating that these announcements provide additional information to that contained in the initial repurchase intention announcements. Further, the market response is especially favorable for firms with overinvestment problems as measured by Tobin's q, and is not related to signaling costs as measured by the size of the repurchase. Our findings generally support the hypothesis that share repurchases reduce the agency costs of excessive free cash flow.

JEL Classification: G12, G35, G31, G34, D82

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Chuan-San and Strong, Norman Charles and Tung, Samuel and Lin, Steve, Share Repurchases, the Clustering Problem, and the Free Cash Flow Hypothesis (August 5, 2008). Financial Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1203544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S Acharya
Value of Latent Information: Alternative Event Study Methods
Journal of Finance , volume 48 , p. 363 - 385 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P Asquith , D W Mullins
Signaling with Dividends, Stock Repurchases, and Equity Issues
Financial Management , volume 15 , p. 27 - 44 Posted: 1986
Crossref
E Bartov
Open-Market Stock Repurchases as Signals for Earnings and Risk Changes
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 275 - 294 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D A Bens , V Nagar , M H F Wong
Real Investment Implications of Employee Stock Option Exercises
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 359 - 393 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Seth Armitage , Ronan Gallagher
The Evolving Relation Between Dividends and Flexible Payouts: A Different Evolution
52 Pages · Posted: 5 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,254
RANK
125,978
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Open Market Stock Repurchase Signalling

By William J. Mcnally

CEO Incentives, Cash Flow, and Investment

By John Paul Broussard, Sheree A. Buchenroth, ...

Multidimensional Signalling with Fixed-Price Repurchase Offers

By William J. Mcnally

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies