Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS and the Accounting Consensus

22 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2008 Last revised: 22 Mar 2010

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 4, 2008

Abstract

A broad consensus in accounting favors principles over rules to guide creation of a uniform high quality set of standards for use everywhere, and granting monopoly power to a single body for this purpose. If implemented into policy, this consensus will discourage discovery of and evolution toward better methods of financial reporting, make it difficult to conduct comparative studies of the consequences of using alternative methods of accounting, promote substitution of analysis and thinking by rote learning in accounting classes, help discourage talented youth from collegiate programs in accounting, and probably endanger the place of accounting discipline in university curricula. Because the presumed benefits in the form of increased comparability of financial reports internationally or stateside are unlikely to be realized, the wisdom of undertaking these burdens remains questionable. The paper calls for a reexamination of the accounting consensus.

Keywords: accounting education, accounting standards, IFRS, uniformity

JEL Classification: M41, M44, A20

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, IFRS and the Accounting Consensus (December 4, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1208502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1208502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Report of the AAA/AAPLG ad hoc committee to assess the supply and demand for accounting PhDs Posted: 2005
American Institute , Cpas
AICPA Council votes to recognize the International Accounting Standards Board as a designated standard setter Posted: 2008-05-18
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shareholder letter Posted: 2002-02-21
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Masatsugu Sanada
Discursive Legitimation of Global Accounting Standards: Principles-Based as Discourse
47 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz , Peter D. Wysocki
Global Accounting Convergence and the Potential Adoption of IFRS by the United States: An Analysis of Economic and Policy Factors
104 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2009 · Downloads: 15,050
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anthony Chen , Jianxin Gong , Hung-Yuan (Richard) Lu
The Effect of Principles-Based Standards on Financial Statement Comparability: The Case of SFAS-142
Advances in Accounting, 2020 · 54 Pages · Posted: 19 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 123
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,347
RANK
42,961
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Minding Our Manners: Accounting as Social Norms

By Shyam Sunder

Enforced Standards versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. and the U.K.

By Shyam Sunder, Michael S. Maier, ...

Enforced Standards Versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. And the U.K.

By Karim Jamal, Michael S. Maier, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies