Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Formal and Informal Mechanisms to Limit Opportunism - Review and Classification of the Hold-Up Literature

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

51 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2008 Last revised: 4 Nov 2008

Fabienne Miller

Worcester Polytechnic Institute

Date Written: October 31, 2008

Abstract

The hold-up problem has been the source of much investigation by fields ranging from economics to accounting. Despite contractual protection, firms and researchers are still looking for better remedies to hold-ups and searching for ways to encourage firms to make socially optimal specialized investments. In this study, I review and classify analytical and empirical research aimed at finding and testing mitigating mechanisms to hold-ups and I suggest avenues for future research. This research is organized around strategic decision-making with organizational design, trade decisions, and resource allocations.

I find that analytical research has focused on formal mitigating mechanisms to hold-ups (i.e., integration, joint ownership, contracts, pricing mechanisms, incentives, and interdependence) and only recently complemented these formal safeguards with informal mechanisms in the form of relational contracting and private information. Empirical research has taken a different approach by focusing overwhelmingly on informal mechanisms. This review also shows that although hold-ups are likely to occur with intra-firm trade and resource allocations, these research streams have not pursued analytical and empirical investigations to the same extent as research on inter-firm trade. As a result, this review not only integrates the findings of the various research streams, but also provides suggestions for future research.

Keywords: opportunism, hold-up, buyer-supplier relationship, relationship-specific investment, contract, controls, trust, governance

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Fabienne, Using Formal and Informal Mechanisms to Limit Opportunism - Review and Classification of the Hold-Up Literature (October 31, 2008). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1216022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1216022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
R Anctil , S Dutta
Negotiated Transfer Pricing and Divisional vs. Firm-Wide Performance Evaluation
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Anderson
The sales person as outside agent or employee: a transaction cost analysis
Transaction Cost Economics and Beyond , volume 4 , p. 65 - 83 Posted: 1985
Crossref
S Anderson , H Dekker
Management control for market transactions: The relation between transaction characteristics, incomplete contract design and subsequent performance
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 12 , p. 1734 - 1752 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Anderson , D Glenn , K Sedatole
Sourcing parts of complex products: evidence on transactions costs, high-powered incentives and ex-post opportunism. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 25 , p. 723 - 749 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,936
RANK
277,353
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Cost Based Transfer Pricing

By Thomas Pfeiffer, Ulf Schiller, ...

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

Ownership, Incentives, and the Hold-Up Problem

By Tim Baldenius

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies