Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accounting Contextual Variables on Negotiator's Perceived Risk, Trusting Behavior and Negotiation Outcomes

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

39 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2008 Last revised: 4 Nov 2008

Andrea Drake

Louisiana Tech University

Susan F. Haka

Michigan State University - The Eli Broad College of Business and The Eli Broad Graduate School of Management

Michelle Lau

Michigan State University

Fabienne Miller

Worcester Polytechnic Institute

Date Written: November 2, 2008

Abstract

We explore how two key aspects of accounting information affect trusting behavior between unknown parties in a bilateral negotiation. The two aspects include the fineness/coarseness of cost information that can be utilized during the negotiation and the profit/loss frame induced by accounting information going into the negotiation. Based on several streams of literature related to trust, we develop a theoretical model of the antecedents and consequences of trusting behavior. Specifically, we provide a model linking accounting contextual variables to perceived risk, trusting behavior, and negotiation outcomes. We conducted an experiment using 148 participants (74 negotiating pairs) to test our hypothesized model. We measured trusting behavior as the negotiator's choice to share or not share private cost information with their negotiating partner. The consequences of trusting behavior include the economic outcome of the negotiation as well as the negotiator's perceived satisfaction with the negotiation process and with the other negotiator. Our main findings demonstrate that accounting information fineness is negatively related to trusting behavior and a loss frame is positively related to trusting behavior. Furthermore, we find significant and positive links between trusting behavior and both economic outcomes and satisfaction with the negotiation process. Overall, our study contributes to the literature by establishing a more comprehensive model of the relationships between aspects of accounting information, risk perceptions, trusting behavior, and negotiation outcomes.

Keywords: trust, negotiation, accounting information characteristics, risk propensity, fineness

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Andrea and Haka, Susan F. and Lau, Michelle and Miller, Fabienne, The Impact of Accounting Contextual Variables on Negotiator's Perceived Risk, Trusting Behavior and Negotiation Outcomes (November 2, 2008). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1218602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1218602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J C Anderson , D W Gerbing
Structural equation modeling in practice: A review and recommended two-step approach
Psychological Bulletin , volume 103 , issue 3 , p. 411 - 423 Posted: 1988
Crossref
S Anderson , H Dekker
Management control for market transactions: The relation between transaction characteristics, incomplete contract design and subsequent performance
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 12 , p. 1734 - 1752 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Y Bakos , E Brynjolfsson
Information technology, incentives, and the optimal number of suppliers
Journal of Management Information Systems , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 37 - 53 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Bensaou
Portfolios of buyer-supplier relationships
Sloan Management Review , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 35 - 44 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,889
RANK
268,675
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies