Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Expectancy Theory and Observed Constituency Response Levels to Exposure Drafts in Accounting Standard-Setting in New Zealand

Victoria University, Wellington, NZ, Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper Number 33

27 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

A brief history of studies of standard setting and constituency lobbying is summarised, and a description of standard setting in New Zealand is provided. Historically, levels of responses to exposure drafts in New Zealand indicate there is no clear existing body of theory to clarify the factors contributing to the pattern in responses to exposure drafts in the last twenty years. The historic longitudinal data from New Zealand exposure drafts exhibited a pattern which could be described as consistently low with two major fluctuations. An alternative approach (expectancy theory) is explored. It is proposed that the response level in New Zealand was generally low over time because there is not a sufficient belief by stakeholders that the Board will change the resulting standard sufficiently to ensure making a submission is cost-benefit efficient. It is suggested that the fluctuations represent periods when there were changes in expectancy by participants of their potential influence on due process.

Keywords: standard setting,constituency lobbying,Vroom, New Zealand, FRSB, SSAPs, FRSs

JEL Classification: M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., The Role of Expectancy Theory and Observed Constituency Response Levels to Exposure Drafts in Accounting Standard-Setting in New Zealand (2005). Victoria University, Wellington, NZ, Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper Number 33 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1220671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1220671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D D Baker , R Ravichandran , D M Randall
Exploring contrasting formulations of expectancy theory
Decision Sciences , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R F Baskerville
Responses to exposure drafts; comparing data from New Zealand with responses to Australian and International exposure drafts on the same topics Posted: 1996-07
D R Beresford
What's Right with the FASB
Journal of Accountancy , volume 169 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 85 Posted: 1990
­1991. Standard Setting Process in Trouble (Again) , volume 5 , p. 94 - 96
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,116
RANK
344,140
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Setting UK Standards on the Concept of Control: An Analysis of Lobbying Behaviour

By Renata Isabel Stenka and Peter Taylor

Small GAAP: A Large Jump for the IASB

By Carolyn J. Cordery and Rachel F. Baskerville

Practitioners’ Participation in the Accounting Standard-Setting Process

By Sylvain Durocher and Anne Fortin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies