Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Income Efficiency Model Approach to the Economic Consequences of the OSHA Cotton Dust Regulations

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 69-89, June 2001

15 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2008 Last revised: 23 Feb 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Raymond L. Raab

University of Minnesota, Duluth - Labovitz School of Business and Economics (LSBE)

Stephen Haag

University of Denver

Date Written: August 14, 2008

Abstract

Theories of regulation have generally been tested by using a regression approach or an an event study approach. This paper was inspired by the Coase (1937) theory of the firm. It used Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to test the economic consequences of the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) cotton dust standards by comparing the managerial efficiency of the firms affected by the cotton dust for the years before and after the US Supreme Court upheld the decision in 1981. Accounting inputs of common equity, total assets, and production costs were minimized while the total revenue was maximized. Controlling for the effects of imports for consumption providing for asymmetric disadvantages to US firms, we found that surviving firms had become more productively efficient during the post regulatory period as predicted. Apparently, these firms were able to accommodate the dust standard, reduce costs, and improve the operating efficiency of these firms simultaneously. These results indicate the usefulness of DEA as an alternative method of testing the theories of regulation.

Keywords: Coase Theory of the Firm, Regulation, Economic Consequences, OSHA, Cotton Dust, Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA), Political Economy

JEL Classification: C44, C61, C67, D57, D61, E23, F02, G18, K23, L67, M11, M41, P16, G30, H10, I22, L30, L31, L51, M40

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Raab, Raymond L. and Haag, Stephen, An Income Efficiency Model Approach to the Economic Consequences of the OSHA Cotton Dust Regulations (August 14, 2008). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 69-89, June 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1226227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,293
RANK
441,693
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Operations Research eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

By Ehsan H. Feroz, Sungsoo Kim, ...

Performance Measurement for Accountability in Corporate Governance: A Data Envelopment Analysis Approach

By Ehsan H. Feroz, Sanjay Goel, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies