Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Game Theory Approach to Research on Lobbying Activities in Accounting Regulation: Benefits and Issues

Victoria University Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 42

26 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

There is a lack of consensus on the most appropriate methodological framework for studies of regulation and due process in order to provide robust outcomes and predictive potential. In addition to this diversity of approaches, research typically adopts a "single-event focus" to an examination of due process and regulatory efficiency. The objective of this research is to examine the advantages and issues arising when methodologies offering a multi-event approach are adopted specifically the utility of game theory methodology in accounting lobbying research. The applications of game theory in previous studies in accounting research are summarised (the application to FASB voting rules, auditor-client interaction, and accounting disclosure choices relevant to wage bargaining) and the theoretical basis for studies of lobbying behaviour is also reviewed. The standard model as currently utilised in research on lobbying activities is described, and an alternative dynamic model proposed. Four core issues arise in the application of such a dynamic model: identification of the master game and sub-games, gradual or punctuated equilibrium, agency issues, and reputation effects.

It is apparent from the application of game theory in other areas of accounting research that evolutionary game theory offers a more comprehensive and dynamic model of real-world events, based on multi-period or sequential events. The proposed utility of a game theoretic model in accounting research on due process and regulation justifies further developments in this area.

Keywords: game theory, standard setting, New Zealand, accounting

JEL Classification: C70, M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., A Game Theory Approach to Research on Lobbying Activities in Accounting Regulation: Benefits and Issues (2007). Victoria University Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1228064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A H Amershi , J S Demski , M A Wolfson
Strategic Behaviour and Regulation Research in Accounting
J. Acct. & Public Pol , volume 1 , p. 19 - 32 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R J Aumann
An axiomatization of the non­transferable utility value
Econometrica , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 599 - 613 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R J Aumann
Collected papers Posted: 1996
S Barlas
Business Groups try another tack on stock options
Management Accounting , volume 76 , issue 3 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,756
RANK
54,992
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies