Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining the Surprising Performance of Whisper Forecasts of Earnings

57 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2008

Susan M. Machuga

University of Hartford

Karen Teitel

College of the Holy Cross

Ray J. Pfeiffer

Texas Christian University - Neeley School of Business

Date Written: July 22, 2008

Abstract

Whisper numbers have attracted both popular press and academic interest since at least 1998, when Whispernumbers.com was established. Nearly all academic research to date has focused on the accuracy and representativeness of whispers relative to financial analysts' earnings forecasts and has found that in some circumstances, whisper forecasts are more accurate and/or more closely associated with investors' expectations than are financial analysts' forecasts. In this paper we find that the surprisingly strong performance of whisper forecasts says more about relative weakness in analysts' forecasts in certain contexts than relative strength of whispers.

Keywords: whisper forecasts, analysts forecasts, management forecasts, forecast accuracy, forecast information content

JEL Classification: C12, C23, G14, M41, G29

Suggested Citation:

Machuga, Susan M. and Teitel, Karen and Pfeiffer, Ray J., Explaining the Surprising Performance of Whisper Forecasts of Earnings (July 22, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1245462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1245462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
D A Matsumoto
Management's Incentives to Avoid Negative Earnings Surprises. The Accounting Review , p. 483 - 514 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Mendenhall
Evidence on the Possible Underweighting of Earnings-Related Information
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 170 - 180 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S Richardson , S H Teoh , P Wysocki
The Walk-down to Beatable Analyst Forecasts: The Role of Equity Issuance and Insider Trading Incentives
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 885 - 924 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Douglas J. Skinner , Richard G. Sloan
Earnings Surprises, Growth Expectations, and Stock Returns: Don't Let an Earnings Torpedo Sink Your Portfolio
Pages: 59 Posted: 28 Jul 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,916
RANK
344,140
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies