Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Information Quality in Data Exchanges: Effects on Risk, Trust, and Intention to Use

Information Systems Research, Vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 332-351, December 2006

Posted: 2 Sep 2008 Last revised: 9 Oct 2008

Andreas I. Nicolaou

Bowling Green State University - Accounting & Management Information Systems

D. Harrison McKnight

Michigan State University

Date Written: September 1, 2008

Abstract

This study examines the role of information quality in the success of initial phase interorganizational data exchanges. We propose perceived information quality as a factor of perceived risk and trusting beliefs, which will directly affect intention to use the exchange. The study also proposes that two important system design factors, control transparency and outcome feedback, will incrementally influence perceived information quality. An empirical test of the model demonstrated that perceived information quality predicts trusting beliefs and perceived risk, which mediate the effects of perceived information quality on intention to use the exchange. Thus, perceived information quality constitutes an important indirect factor influencing exchange adoption. Furthermore, control transparency had a significant influence on perceived information quality, while outcome feedback had no significant incremental effect over that of control transparency. The study contributes to the literature by demonstrating the important role of perceived information quality in interorganizational systems adoption and by showing that information cues available to a user during an initial exchange session can help build trusting beliefs and mitigate perceived exchange risk. For managers of interorganizational exchanges, the study implies that building into the system appropriate control transparency mechanisms can increase the likelihood of exchange success.

Keywords: Perceived Information Quality, B2B electronic commerce, electronic data exchanges, perceived risk, trust, interorganizational performance

Suggested Citation:

Nicolaou, Andreas I. and McKnight, D. Harrison, Perceived Information Quality in Data Exchanges: Effects on Risk, Trust, and Intention to Use (September 1, 2008). Information Systems Research, Vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 332-351, December 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1262031
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies