Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Family of Abel Series Distributions of Order K

Pakistan Journal of Statistics, Vol. 24, No. 3, pp. 173-178, 2008

6 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2010

Rupak Gupta

The Icfai University

Kishore K. Das

Gauhati Univesity - Department of Statistics

Dulumoni Das

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 5, 2008

Abstract

In this paper we have considered a class of univariate discrete distributions of order k, the Abel Series distributions of order k (ASD(k)) generated by suitable functions of real valued parameters in the Abel polynomials. A new distribution called the Quasi logarithmic series distribution of order k (QLSD(k)) is derived from ASD(k) and many other distributions, viz. Quasi Binomial distributions of order k (QBD(k)), Generalized Poison distribution of order k (GPD(k)) and Quasi negative binomial distribution of order k (QNBD (k)) have been derived as particular cases of ASDs of order k. Some properties have also been discussed.

Keywords: Abel Polynomials, Abel Series Distribution of Order K, Quasi Binomial Distribution of Order K, Quasi Negative Binomial Distribution of Order K, Quasi Logarithmic Series Distribution of Order K, Generalized Poisson Distribution of Order K

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Rupak and Das, Kishore K. and Das, Dulumoni, A Family of Abel Series Distributions of Order K (July 5, 2008). Pakistan Journal of Statistics, Vol. 24, No. 3, pp. 173-178, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
S Aki , K Hirano
Some characteristics of the binomial distribution of order k and related distributions, Statistical Theory and Data , p. 11 - 222 Posted: 1988
S Aki , H Kuboki , K Hirano
On discrete distributions of order k
Ann. Inst. Statist. Math , volume 36 , p. 431 - 440 Posted: 1984
Crossref
S Aki , K Hirano
Distributions of numbers of failures and successes until the consecutive k successes
Ann. Inst. Statistic. Math , volume 46 , p. 193 - 202 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Ch A Charalambides
On discrete distributions of order k
Ann. Inst. Statistic. Math , volume 38 , p. 557 - 568 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
791,953
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

A Family of Multivariate Abel Series Distributions of Order K

By Rupak Gupta and Kishore K. Das

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies