Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Financial Statement Comparability

54 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 15 Mar 2011

Gus De Franco

Purdue University

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 14, 2011

Abstract

Investors, regulators, academics, and researchers all emphasize the importance of financial statement comparability. However, an empirical construct of comparability is typically not specified. In addition, little evidence exists on the benefits of comparability to users. This study attempts to fill these gaps by developing a measure of financial statement comparability. Empirically, this measure is positively related to analyst following and forecast accuracy, and negatively related to analysts’ dispersion in earnings forecasts. These results suggest that financial statement comparability lowers the cost of acquiring information, and increases the overall quantity and quality of information available to analysts about the firm.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Analysts, Earnings Attributes

JEL Classification: G29, M41, M45, G34

Suggested Citation:

De Franco, Gus and Kothari, S.P. and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Benefits of Financial Statement Comparability (March 14, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R S P Ball , Kothari; And A , Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors of Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting Abnormal Operating Performance: The Empirical Power and Specification of Test Statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting Long-Run Abnormal Stock Returns: The Empirical Power and Specification of Test Statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M E.; R Barth , Kaznick;
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,158
RANK
6,643
133 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies