Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do CFOs Have Styles of Their Own? An Empirical Investigation of the Effect of Individual CFOs on Financial Reporting Practices

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

59 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 27 Oct 2010

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Dawn A. Matsumoto

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Jenny Li Zhang

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: September 28, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of Chief Financial Officers’ (CFOs’) individual philosophy or “style” on corporate accounting choices. We track 359 CFOs across different firms over time and investigate whether CFO-specific factors explain a firm’s accounting choices. We find that, across a wide range of accounting choices, individual CFOs are an important determinant of accounting practices. Moreover, the effect of CFO styles appears to be stronger under conditions of high CFO discretion and high CFO job demands. We also trace the CFO style to observable CFO characteristics by examining whether CFOs’ gender, age, and educational background affect their styles. We find limited evidence of the impact of these CFO characteristics on accounting choices, suggesting that these common and observable characteristics capture only a small portion of CFO styles.

Keywords: Chief Financial Officer, Managerial Style, Management Turnover, Accounting Choice

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Weili and Matsumoto, Dawn and Zhang, Jenny Li, Do CFOs Have Styles of Their Own? An Empirical Investigation of the Effect of Individual CFOs on Financial Reporting Practices (September 28, 2008). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of broads of directors in Corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Bamber , J Jiang , I Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers and their personal backgrounds on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review Posted: 2009
Crossref
B M Barber , T Odean
Boys will be boys: gender, overconfidence, and common stock investment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , p. 261 - 292 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,438
RANK
22,517
85 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies