Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Market Competition and Accounting Conservatism

46 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 22 Dec 2008

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Raynolde Pereira

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 19, 2008

Abstract

This study examines the relation between product market competition and accounting conservatism. Extant research offers three reasons why intense competition can lead to more timely recognition of economic losses in accounting income. First, intense product market competition improves the flow of firm-specific information and hence limits managers' ability to conceal bad news. Second, product market competition, by increasing liquidation risk, contributes to a firm's demand for accounting conservatism to achieve more efficient contracting. For instance, it allows for better debt contracting and hence enables firms in a competitive setting to obtain funds at a lower cost. Third, intense product market competition induces greater demand for conservatism because sub-optimal managerial decisions contrary to shareholders' interest can quickly lead to costly firm liquidation. Timely loss recognition serves to discourage negative net present value investments and to encourage quicker abandonment of loss-making projects. An alternative prediction is that product market competition reduces the severity of agency conflicts and hence limits the demand for accounting conservatism. We attempt to shed light on the competing views by investigating the association between product market competition and the asymmetric timeliness of economic loss recognition. Using a sample of 99,315 firm-year observations over the period 1964-2006, we find asymmetric timeliness of economic loss recognition to increase with the intensity of product market competition. Moreover, this relation is not qualitatively affected by the inclusion of various controls for the demand for conservatism, in particular, managerial ownership. We also find an inter-temporal increase in asymmetric timely recognition of economic losses following industry deregulation. Overall, our evidence points to a relation between product market competition and properties of accounting numbers.

JEL Classification: D40, M41, M44, G32

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Huang, Shawn X. and Khurana, Inder and Pereira, Raynolde, Product Market Competition and Accounting Conservatism (December 19, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting characteristics and Board of Directors characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 448 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt Markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,804
RANK
35,484
12 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies