Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Fair Value Measurement Provide Satisfactory Evidence for Audit? The Case of High Tech Valuation

24 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2008

Cécile Carpentier

Laval University; Center for Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organization (CIRANO); University of Lille II - European Center for Corporate Control Studies

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Bruno Laurent

Ernst and Young

Jean-Marc Suret

Laval University; Center for Interuniversity Research and Analysis on Organization (CIRANO)

Date Written: September 17, 2008

Abstract

Fair value measurement (FVM) of assets for which no liquid market exists has stimulated debate in the accounting profession. Two solutions to this brainteaser have been proposed: 1) recourse to outside experts and 2) development of valuation standards or guidelines by practitioners' associations. Despite these adjustments to FVM, one question remains unanswered: Do skilled experts using these standards and guidelines provide accurate and homogeneous valuations? We analyse the consistency and quality of the valuations provided by a sample of 43 business valuation experts. These experts were asked to value the same closed small high tech firm preparing an initial public offering (IPO), according to a common set of hypotheses and guidelines. Our experimental study shows that, even when they rely on the same guidelines, skilled experts use different methods and multiples. The variations found in FVMs for the same investment are very significant, and a comparison of these FVMs with the actual market value following the IPO indicates that the FVMs were biased upward. The effective usefulness of the guidelines for FMVs and the ability of experts to provide consistent valuations are therefore questionable, at least in the case of highly challenging valuation engagements.

Keywords: Fair Value, Measurement, Audit, Valuation, Standards, Experts

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, C91

Suggested Citation:

Carpentier, Cécile and Labelle, Réal and Laurent, Bruno and Suret, Jean-Marc, Does Fair Value Measurement Provide Satisfactory Evidence for Audit? The Case of High Tech Valuation (September 17, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1269743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1269743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Valuation of a Business
Business Ownership Interest, Security, or Intangible Asset Posted: 2007
M E Barth
Standard-setting measurement issues and the relevance of research , p. 7 - 15 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G J Benston
Fair-value accounting: A cautionary tale from Enron
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 465 - 484 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R M Bushman , A J Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 32 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,567
RANK
41,682
6 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financing Under Extreme Risk: Contract Terms and Returns to Private Investments in Public Equity

By Susan Chaplinsky and David Haushalter

Does Investor Identity Matter in Equity Issues? Evidence from Private Placements

By Srinivasan Krishnamurthy, Paul A. Spindt, ...

Does Investor Identity Matter? An Empirical Examination on Investments by Venture Capital Funds and Hedge Funds in Pipes

By Na Dai

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies