Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Valuation Using Multiples: Controlling for Differences Between Firms

40 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2008 Last revised: 18 May 2009

Stefan Henschke

University of Cologne

Carsten Homburg

University of Cologne

Date Written: May 15, 2009

Abstract

This study addresses the problem of differences between firms and the impact on valuations based on multiples. We investigate the extent to which industry-based multiples ignore additional firm-specific information and develop measures for identifying peer groups that are not comparable with the target firm. Additionally, we compare the performance of different methods that control for differences between firms. We find that differences between firms lead to systematic errors in the value estimates of different multiples. These errors are consistent with our hypotheses, statistically significant, economically substantial, consistent between different value drivers and robust over time. We find that these errors can be predicted very accurately by comparing the financial ratios of the target firm with the financial ratios of its peer group. We show that when adequately controlling for differences between firms, valuation accuracy is improved substantially and all considered value drivers perform almost equally well.

Keywords: equity valuation, multiple valuation method, price-earnings, comparables, ratio analyses, financial ratios

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Henschke, Stefan and Homburg, Carsten, Equity Valuation Using Multiples: Controlling for Differences Between Firms (May 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1270812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1270812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A W Alford
The Effect of the Set of Comparable Firms on the Accuracy of the PriceEarnings Valuation Method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P ; M B Asquith , A S Mikhail; , Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Baker , R S Ruback
Estimating Industry Multiples Posted: 1999
S Bhojraj , C Lee
Who Is My Peer? A Valuation-Based Selection of Comparable Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 407 - 439 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,236
RANK
12,498
14 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies