Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Trading and the Post Earnings Announcement Drift

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper ; The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2008 Last revised: 21 Oct 2010

Benjamin C. Ayers

University of Georgia

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

P. Eric Yeung

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: August 1, 2010

Abstract

We examine whether the two distinct post-earnings-announcement drifts associated with seasonal random walk-based and analyst-based earnings surprises are attributable to the trading activities of distinct sets of investors. We predict and find that small (large) traders continue to trade in the direction of seasonal random walk-based (analyst-based) earnings surprises after earnings announcements. We also find that when small (large) traders react more thoroughly to seasonal random walk- (analyst-) based earnings surprises at the earnings announcements, the respective drift attenuates. Further evidence suggests that delayed small trades associated with random walk-based surprises are consistent with small traders’ failure to understand time-series properties of earnings, whereas delayed large trades associated with analyst-based surprises are more consistent with a longer price discovery process. We also find that the analyst-based drift has declined in recent years.

Keywords: Investor Trading, Post Earnings Announcement Drift

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G29, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ayers, Benjamin C. and Li, Oliver Zhen and Yeung, P. Eric, Investor Trading and the Post Earnings Announcement Drift (August 1, 2010). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper ; The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1270811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1270811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S P Kothari
Capital markets research in accounting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 105 - 231 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Lee
Earnings news and small traders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 265 - 302 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,479
RANK
57,069
15 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Underreacts to Cash-Flow News? Evidence from Trading between Individuals and Institutions

By Randolph B. Cohen, Paul A. Gompers, ...

Individual Investor Sentiment and Stock Returns

By Ron Kaniel, Gideon Saar, ...

Individual Investor Trading and Stock Returns

By Ron Kaniel, Gideon Saar, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies