Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accruals Anomaly and Company Size

Financial Analysts Journal, Vol. 64, No. 5, 2008

Posted: 24 Sep 2008

Dan Palmon

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Ephraim F. Sudit

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ari Yezegel

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September, 23 2008

Abstract

Research has shown that a trading strategy based on publicly available accounting accrual information can earn abnormal returns of approximately 10 percent in the year after it is applied. This article reports a study of whether this "accruals anomaly" is sensitive to company size. The empirical results suggest that the interaction between company size and accruals provides incremental information about future returns and that the accruals anomaly is not independent of company size. The negative abnormal returns when an accruals-anomaly strategy is applied come primarily from the larger companies, and the positive abnormal returns come from the smaller companies.

Keywords: Equity Investments, Research Sources, Financial Statement Analysis, Accounting and Financial Reporting Issues, Portfolio Management, Equity Strategies

Suggested Citation:

Palmon, Dan and Sudit, Ephraim F. and Yezegel, Ari, The Accruals Anomaly and Company Size (September, 23 2008). Financial Analysts Journal, Vol. 64, No. 5, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1272613
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,751
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies