Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Reporting Biases: Implications for Future Profitability and Market Mispricing

Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Ming-Che Lu

Chaoyang University of Technology

Yi-Hua Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 23, 2008

Abstract

This study links the conservatism principal and earnings persistence. Following Lev's framework (Lev, Sarath, and Sougiannis 2005), we further estimate the R&D reporting biases of earnings, derived from the immediate expensing of research and development (R&D) expenditures, under current generally accepted accounting principles. It makes negative R&D reporting biases to report earnings conservatively, while reporting aggressively makes positive R&D reporting biases. Since the R&D reporting biases are a component of earnings, we can decompose the earnings into the real earnings component and the R&D reporting biases component. We find that the R&D reporting biases component is more persistent than the real earnings component. The R&D reporting biases of earnings serve as a pivot to punish/reward for low/high earnings persistence due to high/low R&D growth rate relative to profitability. This evidence conforms to conservatism principal arguments about the high level of uncertainty associated with the payoff of R&D investments.

However, stock market fails to rationally reflect the implication of the R&D reporting biases with respect to one-year-ahead earnings and consequently underprices the R&D reporting biases. Our findings are consistent with investors' lack of the reporting biases information, which is generally not provided by financial statements themselves.

Keywords: Earnings persistence, Financial reporting biases, Mispricing, R&D

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Ming-Che and Chen, Yi-Hua, R&D Reporting Biases: Implications for Future Profitability and Market Mispricing (September 23, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1272289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies