Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marking Capital to Market for Non-Publicly Traded Companies: A Life Insurance Industry Case Study

McCombs Research Paper Series No. IROM-03-09

42 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2008 Last revised: 18 Jan 2009

Liyan Zhao

Dell Financial Services (DFS)

Thomas W. Sager

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Etti G. Baranoff

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Finance, Insurance & Real Estate

Date Written: September 27, 2008

Abstract

Dearth of market values for firms in several industries is a serious limitation in empirical research. Book value and other proxies may not be satisfactory surrogates. This study provides the methodologies of matching-allocation and multiple imputation as remedies for lack of marked-to-market capital of life insurers. The methods are illustrated by a detailed application to the life insurance industry, for which the challenges are especially daunting on account of the large proportion of non-publicly traded insurers and the reporting of accounting data in two incompatible formats (SAP and GAAP). The matching-allocation method apportions GAAP values of parent insurers among subsidiaries by using selected SAP variables. The multiple imputation method is then employed to impute market values for U.S. life insurers that are neither publicly traded nor assigned a market value by the matching-allocation method. The major tangible product of this study is a database of 30 datasets for use in further empirical research. Each dataset contains a complete set of estimated market values of all U.S. life insurers in our sample. The advantage conferred by having multiple estimates for each insurer is to control for bias by properly assessing the error attributable to imputation. We show that the methodologies work through cross validation and an illustrative application. The major contribution is the opening of financial institutions and non-publicly traded firms to sophisticated empirical financial research that is currently not available.

Keywords: Market Value, SAP and GAAP, Matching-Allocation Method, Multiple Imputation

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Liyan and Sager, Thomas W. and Baranoff, Etti G., Marking Capital to Market for Non-Publicly Traded Companies: A Life Insurance Industry Case Study (September 27, 2008). McCombs Research Paper Series No. IROM-03-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1274621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1274621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
American Council of Life Insurers Posted: 2002
D F Babbel , C Merrill
Economic Valuation Models for Insurers
North American Actuarial Journal , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 97 - 144 Posted: 1998
Crossref
_______________________
Real and Illusory Value Creation by Insurance Companies
The Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2005
E G Baranoff , T W Sager
The Relationship between Asset Risk, Product Risk, and Capital in the Life Insurance Industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 26 , p. 1181 - 1197 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Etti G. Baranoff , Thomas W. Sager , Bo Shi
Handbook of Insurance
, p. 881 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
420,501
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Tobin's Q, Corporate Diversification and Firm Performance

By Larry H.p. Lang and René M. Stulz

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies