Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measures of Accounting Conservatism: A Construct Validity Perspective

Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2008 Last revised: 9 Feb 2010

Richard Zhe Wang

Eastern Illinois University

Ciaran Ó Hogartaigh

University College Dublin (UCD) - College of Business and Law

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: September 25, 2008

Abstract

Accounting conservatism has been the subject of intensive empirical research in the past decade. To date five key measures of conservatism have emerged in the literature. However, there have been few studies that have examined, directly or tangentially, whether the applications of these measures produce facts or artefacts. In this paper we consider this issue from the perspective of construct validity. We describe each of the five measures and, within the constraints imposed by the limited and mixed relevant evidence, we consider the measures against four of the sub-validities of construct validity. While the available evidence is insufficient to conclude on construct validity, the analysis of this paper nevertheless suggests that the construct validity of the five existing measures of conservatism is weak. We conclude the paper with a consideration of the challenges of measuring conservatism facing accounting researchers and suggestions for further research.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, measurement, construct validity

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Richard Zhe and Ó Hogartaigh, Ciaran and van Zijl, Tony, Measures of Accounting Conservatism: A Construct Validity Perspective (September 25, 2008). Journal of Accounting Literature, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1274044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
R Adcock , D Collier
Measurement validity: a shared standard for qualitative and quantitative research
American Political Science Review , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 529 - 545 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A S Ahmed , K Billings Bruce , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividends policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S ______ , Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
R M ______ , T F Morton , Schaefer
Accounting conservatism and the valuation of accounting numbers: Evidence of the Feltham-Ohlson (1996) model
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 15 , issue 3 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,310
RANK
7,225
4 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies