Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Risk and the Term Structure of Lease Rates: A Reduced Form Approach

Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Vol. 37, No. 3, 2008

26 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008 Last revised: 3 Feb 2011

Brent W. Ambrose

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Insurance & Real Estate

Yildiray Yildirim

Zicklin School of Business, Baruch College - The City University of New York

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

Previous research either assumes default free leases or leases subject to default risk using a structural approach. However, structural credit risk models suffer from a common criticism that the firm's asset value process is unobservable. We develop a reduced form credit risk model for leases that avoids making assumptions regarding unobservable asset valuation processes. Furthermore, we assume a correlated market and credit risk that provides us with a simple analytic formula for valuing defaultable lease contracts. Numerical analysis reveals that tenant credit risk can have a substantial impact on the term structure of leases. Finally, we use the model to demonstrate the implied lease term structure for a set of retail and financial firms in the Fall of 2000.

Keywords: leasing valuation, credit risk, reduced form model

JEL Classification: G33, G12

Suggested Citation:

Ambrose, Brent W. and Yildirim, Yildiray, Credit Risk and the Term Structure of Lease Rates: A Reduced Form Approach (September 30, 2008). Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Vol. 37, No. 3, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
B W Ambrose , P H Hendershott , M Klosek
Pricing Upward-Only Adjusting Leases
Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 49 Posted: 2002
Crossref
F Black , J Cox
Valuing corporate securities: some effects of bond indenture provisions
Journal of Finance , volume 31 , p. 351 - 367 Posted: 1976
Crossref
M J Brennan , A Kraus
The equilibrium term structure of lease rate Posted: 1982
E Clapham , A Gunnelin
Rental Expectation and the Term Structure of Lease Rates
Real Estate Economics , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 647 - 670 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Brent W. Ambrose , Xudong An , Luis A. Lopez
Credit Market Spillover Effects to the Real Economy: Evidence from Rental Housing Evictions
62 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 12 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,001
RANK
357,435
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Real Options, Irreversible Investment and Firm Uncertainty: New Evidence from U.S. Firms

By Laarni T. Bulan

Irreversible Investment, Real Options, and Competition: Evidence from Real Estate Development

By Laarni T. Bulan, Christopher J. Mayer, ...

Irreversible Investment, Real Options, and Competition: Evidence from Real Estate Development

By Laarni T. Bulan, Christopher J. Mayer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies