Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward a Framework of the Harmonization of Bank Financial Reporting Standards in Transition Economies: The Case of Mexico

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

63 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2008 Last revised: 15 Mar 2009

Alejandro Hazera

University of Rhode Island

Salvador Marín Hernández

University of Murcia

Carmen Quirvan

University of Rhode Island

Date Written: December 15, 2008

Abstract

In recent years banks in emerging and transition economies throughout the world have been compelled to change lending and financial reporting practices in response to the economic transition of their countries. Correspondingly, on the basis of the theory of soft budget constraints (SBC), economists have studied the relationship between economic development, banks' lending practices, and banks' penchant to overstate loans. However, very little research has been performed by accounting researchers regarding the nature of bank loan overstatement during times of financial crisis in emerging markets. Accordingly, this paper uses the theory of soft budget constraints to develop a four stage conceptual framework of the harmonization of bank financial reporting standards during times of economic transition. Emphasis is placed on using the theory of soft budget constraints to characterize the harmonization of standards and practices with respect to bank loan overstatement. The framework is applied to the harmonization of Mexican bank financial reporting during the country's economic transition of the late 1990s. The Mexico harmonization process during this period closely followed the framework.

Keywords: soft budget constraints, bank accounting, emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Hazera, Alejandro and Marín Hernández, Salvador and Quirvan, Carmen, Toward a Framework of the Harmonization of Bank Financial Reporting Standards in Transition Economies: The Case of Mexico (December 15, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: a Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management, and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-U.S. firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Sound Practices for Loan Accounting, Credit Disclosure, and Related Matters, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 1998
V Beattie , P D Casson , R S Dale , G W Mckenzie , C Sutcliffe , M S Turner , M J
Banks and Bad Debts-Accounting for Loan Losses in International Banking Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,769
RANK
377,290
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies