Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Default Risk on the Basu Measure of Accounting Conservatism

43 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2008 Last revised: 24 May 2011

Richard Zhe Wang

Eastern Illinois University

Ciaran Ó Hogartaigh

University College Dublin (UCD) - College of Business and Law

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: December 8, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we analytically and empirically examine the impact of default risk on the Basu (1997) measure of accounting conservatism. Using the classic Merton (1974) call-option model of equity, we show that the Basu asymmetric timeliness coefficient is biased upward by the existence of the default risk in a firm, and that bias tends to increase with the level of default risk. Furthermore, we propose a new measure of conservatism, the Default-Adjusted-Basu (“DAB”) measure, by modifying the original Basu measure. The DAB measure is likely more robust to the influences of default risk than is the original Basu measure. Our empirical evidence is consistent with our theoretical arguments with regards to both the impact of default risk on original Basu measure and the advantage of our DAB measure of conservatism.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, financial reporting, Basu model, asymmetric timeliness, financial distress

JEL Classification: M41, G33

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Richard Zhe and Ó Hogartaigh, Ciaran and van Zijl, Tony, The Impact of Default Risk on the Basu Measure of Accounting Conservatism (December 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1279488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1279488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
ميسون داود حسين
أثر التحفظ المحاسبي على دلالة القوائم المالية )دراسة تطبيقية في شركات المساهمة العراقية(
Tikrit Journal of Administrative and Economic Sciences , volume 18 , issue 60, 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
AUDREY WEN-HSIN HSU , JOHN O'HANLON , KEN PEASNELL
Financial Distress and the Earnings-Sensitivity-Difference Measure of Conservatism
Abacus , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 284 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,672
RANK
124,488
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies