Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift: The Role of Revenue Surprises and Earnings Persistence

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27572

39 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2003

Abstract

This study explores an additional factor that is associated with differential levels of the post-earnings-announcement drift (henceforth drift) the contemporaneous surprise in revenues. Consistent with prior evidence about greater persistence of revenues and greater noise caused by heterogeneity of expenses, this study shows that the earnings drift is stronger when the revenue surprise is in the same direction as the earnings surprise. Moreover, the study provides direct evidence that the drift is stronger when the earnings persistence is greater. The results are robust to various controls, including the proportions of stock held by institutional investors, trading liquidity, and arbitrage risk.

Suggested Citation:

Livnat, Joshua, Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift: The Role of Revenue Surprises and Earnings Persistence (June 2003). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 177 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , E Bartov
How naïve is the stock market's use of earnings information?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , p. 319 - 337 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,021
RANK
30,827
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies