Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Option Expense, Forward-Looking Information, and Implied Volatilities of Traded Options

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27569

37 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Partha S. Mohanram

Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2004

Abstract

Prior research generally finds that firms underreport option expense by managingassumptions underlying option valuation (e.g. they shorten the expected option lives), but it fails to document management of a key assumption, the one concerning expected stock-price volatility. Using a new methodology, we address two questions: (1) To what extent do companies follow the guidance in FAS 123 and use forward looking information in addition to the readily available historical volatility in estimating expected volatility? (2) What determinesthe cross-sectional variation in the reliance on forward looking information? We find that firms use both historical and forward-looking information in deriving expected volatility. We also find, however, that the reliance on forward-looking information is limited to situations where this reliance results in reduced expected volatility and thus smaller option expense. We interpret this finding as managers opportunistically use the discretion in estimating expected volatility afforded by FAS 123. In support of this interpretation, we also find that managerial incentivesplay a key role in this opportunism.

Keywords: executive stock options, forward-looking information, SFAS No. 123, implied volatility

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Mohanram, Partha S. and Nissim, Doron, Stock Option Expense, Forward-Looking Information, and Implied Volatilities of Traded Options (April 2004). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27569, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D ; M Aboody , Barth; And R , Kasznik
Do Firms Manage Stock-Based Compensation Expense Disclosed Under SFAS 123?" Working paper Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Alford , J Boatsman
Predicting Long-term Stock Return Volatility: Implications for Accounting and Valuation of Equity Derivatives
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , p. 599 - 618 Posted: 1995-10
S ; H Balsam , H Mozes; And , Newman
Managing Pro-forma Stock-Option Expense under SFAS No. 123
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 31 - 45 Posted: 2003-03
Crossref
F Black , M Scholes
The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , p. 637 - 654 Posted: 1973-06
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,079
RANK
73,926
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Companies' Modest Claims About the Value of CEO Stock Option Awards

By David Yermack

Companies' Modest Claims About the Value of CEO Stock Option Awards

By David Yermack

Companies' Modest Claims About the Value of CEO Stock Option Awards

By David Yermack

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies