Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Advantages of Using Earnings for Compensation: Matching Delivered Performance

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27483

31 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Michael J. Barclay

University of Rochester - Simon School (Deceased)

Dan Gode

affiliation not provided to SSRN

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2000

Abstract

We show that the greater the extent to which a performance measure matches delivered performance, the simpler and more robust are the compensation plans based on it. In some settings stock price changes match delivered performance poorly because they anticipate it. This introduces three problems with price-based plans relative to an earnings-based plan. First, the price-based plans become complex because they require knowing the extent to which prices anticipate the future. Second, price-based plans are less robust to unforeseen events. Third, price-based plans require period-by-period changes in pay-for-performance relationship even when the underlying production function remains unchanged. Earnings-based plans are used in these settings if earnings better match delivered performance.

Suggested Citation:

Barclay, Michael J. and Gode, Dan and Kothari, S.P., The Advantages of Using Earnings for Compensation: Matching Delivered Performance (June 2000). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27483, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Pierre-Andre Chiappori , Ines Macho , Patrick Rey , Bernard Salanie
Repeated Moral Hazard: The Role of Memory Commitment, and the Access to Capital Markets
European Economic Review , volume 38 , p. 1527 - 1553 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Ronald A Dye
Optimal Length of Labor Contracts
International Economic Review , volume 26 , p. 251 - 270 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Ronald A Dye
Earnings Management in an Overlapping Generations Model
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 26 , p. 195 - 235 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Peter D Easton , Trevor S Harris , James A Ohlson
Aggregate Accounting Earnings Can Explain Most of Security Returns: The Case of Long Return Intervals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 119 - 142 Posted: 1992-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,461
RANK
57,929
5 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Communicating and Controlling Strategy: An Empirical Study of the Effectiveness of the Balanced Scorecard

By Mary A. Malina and Frank H. Selto

The Advantages of Using Earnings for Compensation: Matching Delivered Performance

By Michael J. Barclay, Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode, ...

Performance Measurement Systems: Putting Organizational Effectiveness Ahead

By Riccardo Silvi, Diego Maria Macrì, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies