Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Verifiability on Contracts

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27485

30 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Dhananjay (Dan) K. Gode

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Rajdeep Singh

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2000

Abstract

We analyze the impact of verifiability on how signals about agents are used to mitigate adverse selection. We show that if signals are verifiable the observed practice of collecting information about agents before contracting is inferior to writing contingent contracts. This holds regardless of the agent's risk aversion, bounded penalties, or investigation costs. In fact, with risk-neutral agents, a principal can get first-best utility with contingent contracts. We further show that even unverifiable signals can be gainfully used in contingent contracts by removing a principal's incentives to distort signals or by removing an agent's incentives to demand verification.

Suggested Citation:

Gode, Dhananjay (Dan) K. and Singh, Rajdeep, The Impact of Verifiability on Contracts (March 2000). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27485, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Arya , J Glover
Verification of historical cost reports
Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 69 Posted: 1996
S Baiman , J Evans
Pre-decision information and participative management control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1983
Crossref
S Baiman , K Sivaramakrishnan
The value of private pre-decision information in a principal agent context
The Accounting Review , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 1991-10
R Baron , R Myerson
Regulating a monopolist with unknown costs
Econometrica , volume 50 , p. 911 - 930 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
RANK
233,304
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies