Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limited-Liability Contracts with Earnings Management

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27585

37 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Joshua Ronen

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2000

Abstract

Numerous principal-agent situations of interest to accounting involve limited liability by the agent. We explore this issue when the outcome is mutually observable (MOC) and when it is not and the contract is based instead on the agent s report (NCC). We find that when outcome is not observable, the effect of limited liability depends on the level of limited liability: when low no effect; when medium the principal fine-tunes payments based on a post-outcome imperfect public signal to compensate for the loss in flexibility caused by the agent s limited liability; when high the agent s expected utility exceeds his reservation utility level and the public signal s useis limited. Next, we invoke the revelation principle and examine an incentive compatible contract (RPC). Interestingly, RPC coincides with MOC when the limited liability is low and resembles NCC when limited liability is either medium or high. In addition, the impact of limited liability on the demand for earnings management is examined.

Keywords: Limited liability, principal-agent game, report ma nipulation, unobservable -outcome contract, earnings management

Suggested Citation:

Ronen, Joshua, Limited-Liability Contracts with Earnings Management (November 2000). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27585, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R Antler , G D Open
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Arya , J Glover , K Sivaramakrishnan
The interaction between Decision and Control Problems and the Value of Information
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 561 - 574 Posted: 1997
A Arya , J Glover , S Sunder
Earnings management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
S Baiman , J S Demski
Economically optimal performance evaluation and control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 184 - 220 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
90,938
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

New York University Stern School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies