Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Note on Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors Distribution

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27553

31 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Daniel A. Cohen

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2003

Abstract

Abarbanell and Lehavy provide evidence that analysts' forecast errors are not normally distributed exhibiting a high occurrence of extreme negative forecast errors (left-tail asymmetry) and a high occurrence of small positive forecast errors (middle asymmetry). This is important for researchers who rely on techniques that are sensitive to the distributional assumptions of analysts' forecast errors. Many of the conclusions drawn by Abarbanell and Lehavy, however, are based on visual impressions (as opposed to formal empirical tests) or based on methods that are very sensitive to the empirical methods used (e.g., whether the serial correlation of forecast errors is caused by the left-tail asymmetry).

Keywords: Analysts forecasts, analysts bias, analysts under/overreaction to information, analysts loss function, discretionary accruals

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Daniel A. and Lys, Thomas Z., A Note on Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors Distribution (November 2003). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27553, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Alford , P Berger
A simultaneous equations analysis of forecast accuracy, analyst following, and trading volume
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 14 , p. 219 - 240 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' use of information about permanent and transitory earnings components in forecasting annual EPS
Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,255
RANK
68,110
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies