Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Estimates: Pervasive, Yet of Questionable Usefulness

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27469

52 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

Siyi Li

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Theodore Sougiannis

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2005

Abstract

Estimates and projections are embedded in most financial statement items. These estimates potentially improve the relevance of financial information by providing managers the means to convey to investors forward-looking, inside information (e.g., on future collections from customers via the bad debt provision, or on expected assets' cash flows reflected in impairment charges). On the other hand, the quality of financial information is compromised by: (i) the increasing difficulty of making reliable forecasts in a fast-changing, often turbulent economy, and (ii) the frequent managerial misuse of estimates to manipulate financial data. Given the prevalence of estimates in accounting data, whether these opposing forces result in an improvement in the quality of financial information or not is arguably the most fundamental issue in accounting.We examine in this study the contribution of accounting estimates embedded in accruals to the quality of financial information by focusing on the major use of this information by investors - the prediction of enterprise cash flows and earnings. Our extensive tests, reflecting both the statistical and economic significance of estimates, indicate that, by and large, accounting accruals and the estimates they embed do not improve the quality of financial information in terms of enhancing the prediction of enterprise performance. Accruals do not improve the prediction of cash flows, beyond that achieved by current cash flows, and improve only marginally the prediction of earnings. This latter improvement, however, appears to be economically insignificant. Thus, the objective difficulties of generating reliable estimates and projections in a volatile economy, and their frequent misuse by managers appear to offset the positive role of estimates in conveying forward looking information to investors.

Suggested Citation:

Lev, Baruch Itamar and Li, Siyi and Sougiannis, Theodore, Accounting Estimates: Pervasive, Yet of Questionable Usefulness (April 2005). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27469, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , John R. M. Hand , Wayne R. Landsman
Accruals, Accounting-Based Valuation Models, and the Prediction of Equity Values
Pages: 60 Posted: 29 May 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barth , D Cram , K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Barth , J Elliott , M Finn
Market rewards associated with pattern of increasing earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Campbell , M Lettau , B Malkiel , Y Xu
Have individual stocks become more volatile? An empirical exploration of idiosyncratic risk
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
554
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,424
RANK
13,818
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Ability of Earnings to Predict Future Operating Cash Flows Has Been Increasing - Not Decreasing

By Myungsun Kim and William Kross

The Usefulness of Accounting Estimates for Predicting Cash Flows and Earnings

By Siyi Li, Baruch Lev, ...

Analysts' Cash Flow Forecasts and the Predictive Ability and Pricing of Operating Cash Flows

By Andrew C. Call

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies