Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Greater Firm-Specific Return Variation Mean More or Less Informed Stock Pricing?

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27594

64 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2008

Art Durnev

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Randall Morck

University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research

Bernard Yin Yeung

National University of Singapore (NUS) - NUS Business School; SUSTECH Business School; ABFER

Paul Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2001

Abstract

Roll (1988) observes low R2 statistics for common asset pricing models due to vigorousfirms-specific returns variation not associated with public information. He concludes (p. 56) that this implies â¬Seither private information or else occasional frenzy unrelated to concrete information.â¬?We show that firms and industries with lower market model R2 statistics exhibit higher association between current returns and future earnings, indicating more information about future earnings in current stock returns. This supports Rollâ¬"s first interpretation â¬ higher firms-specific returns variation as a fraction of total variation signals more information-laden stock prices and, therefore, more efficient stock markets.

Suggested Citation:

Durnev, Artyom and Morck, Randall K. and Yeung, Bernard Yin and Zarowin, Paul, Does Greater Firm-Specific Return Variation Mean More or Less Informed Stock Pricing? (May 2001). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27594, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281358
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Sudipta Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
William Beaver , Stephen Ryan
Accounting Fundamentals of the Book-to-Market Ratio
Financial Analyst Journal , p. 50 - 56 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Fischer Black
Noise
Journal of Finance , volume 41 , p. 529 - 543 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Robert M. Bushman , Qi Chen , Ellen Engel , Abbie J. Smith
Financial Accounting Information, Organizational Complexity and Corporate Governance Systems
Journal of Accounting and Economics 37 (2004), 167-201 Pages: 41 Posted: 13 Oct 2000 Last revised: 7 Sep 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,448
RANK
46,992
23 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies