Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Credit and Governance Implications of Management Succession Planning

9 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2008 Last revised: 16 Oct 2008

Christian Plath

Moody's Investors Service

Date Written: May 15, 2008

Abstract

Oversight of CEO and senior management succession planning has always been a critical board responsibility, but recent high-profile CEO departures have brought the issue to the fore. Changes at a number of high profile issuers recently have highlighted the risks companies may face due to sudden, unforeseen CEO and senior management departures or dismissals. Moody's expects unprecedented investor and media attention on succession issues in 2008, due to factors that include: fallout from the turmoil in the financial markets; a more challenging operating environment; and continued pressure from activist investors.

Within this context, Moody's views effective succession planning - in particular CEO succession planning - as critical to the sound management and oversight of an organization. While we analyze succession issues on a case-by-case basis, and while the degree of headline risk may vary, we have found there are a number of processes and best practices that help to instill investor confidence and reduce risk, based on our governance reviews of over 700 North American companies.

This special comment describes how Moody's views best practices for the role of boards in overseeing succession planning and management development. This comment is part of a series of Moody's reports that describe the benchmarks against which Moody's evaluates the quality of corporate governance within rated issuers as part of determining the effect of governance on those firms' debt ratings.

Suggested Citation:

Plath, Christian, Analyzing Credit and Governance Implications of Management Succession Planning (May 15, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1285082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1285082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,057
RANK
185,725
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies