Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Corporate Governance in Corporate Control Research

25 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2008

Jeffry M. Netter

Department of Finance; University of Georgia Law School

Annette B. Poulsen

University of Georgia - Department of Banking and Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Mike Stegemoller

Baylor University

Date Written: October 21, 2008

Abstract

This article has two related tasks. First, we review the articles published in this Special Issue on Corporate Control, Mergers, and Acquisitions. These articles provide new evidence on several aspects of corporate control and governance including the value and performance effects of various ownership groups, the impact of internal governance structures, the effects of regulatory changes on specific industries and evidence on bidding strategies in takeovers. This analysis leads us to our second task - to examine the evolution of corporate control research, broadly defined. Our analysis shows a movement in research from mergers and acquisitions to a broader analysis of corporate governance, especially internal governance features. We suggest that there is a trend toward an increase in the relative importance of internal governance compared to discipline from the market from corporate control. This trend reflects an important change over the past several decades in the means through which the market disciplines corporate behavior.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Control, Mergers, Acquisition

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

Netter, Jeffry M. and Poulsen, Annette B. and Stegemoller, Michael A., The Rise of Corporate Governance in Corporate Control Research (October 21, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1287923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1287923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Evrim Akdoğu
Gaining a competitive edge through acquisitions: evidence from the telecommunications industry
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2009
Crossref
Gregor Andrade , Mark Mitchell , Erik Stafford
New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , issue 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Scott Bauguess , Sara Moeller , Frederic Schlingemann , Chad Zutter
Ownership structure and target returns
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2009
Crossref
David Becher
Bidder returns and merger anticipation: evidence from banking deregulation
Journal of Corporate Finance Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,027
RANK
142,252
3 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence

By Richard S. Ruback and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers

By Gregor Andrade, Mark L. Mitchell, ...

Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions?

By Randall Morck, Andrei Shleifer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies