Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management's Tone Change, Post Earnings Announcement Drift and Accruals

65 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2009

Ronen Feldman

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Suresh Govindaraj

Rutgers University - Rutgers Business School - Newark and New Brunswick

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Benjamin Segal

Fordham University; Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Date Written: May 11, 2009

Abstract

This study explores whether the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of Forms 10-Q and 10-K has incremental information content beyond financial measures such as earnings surprises and accruals. It uses a classification scheme of words into positive and negative categories to measure the tone change in the MD&A section relative to prior periodic SEC filings. Our results indicate that short window market reactions around the SEC filing are significantly associated with the tone change of the MD&A section, even after controlling for accruals and earnings surprises. We show that management’s tone change adds significantly to portfolio drift returns in the window of two days after the SEC filing date through one day after the subsequent quarter’s preliminary earnings announcement, beyond financial information conveyed by accruals and earnings surprises. The drift returns are affected by the ability of the tone change signals to help predict the subsequent quarter’s earnings surprise but cannot be completely attributed to this ability. We also find that the incremental information of management’s tone change depends on the strength of the firm’s information environment.

Keywords: Textual analysis, earnings drift, accruals, earnings surprises, management tone change, MD&A

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feldman, Ronen and Govindaraj, Suresh and Livnat, Joshua and Segal, Benjamin, Management's Tone Change, Post Earnings Announcement Drift and Accruals (May 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1287083 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1287083
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the President's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance &Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 Posted: 1996-10
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Conference on Contemporary Financial Reporting Issues , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 1995-10
Crossref
J W Bagby , M R Kintzele , P Kintzele
Management discussion and performance: an analytical and empirical evaluation
American Business Law Journal , volume 26 , p. 57 - 98 Posted: 1988
Crossref
O E Barron , C O Kile
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,979
RANK
37,420
68 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies