Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Convergence of National Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards: The Application of Fuzzy Clustering Analysis

28 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2008

Xiaohui QU

Xiamen University - Center for Accounting Studies

Guohua Zhang

Institute for Financial Management and Accounting Studies, Xiamen University

Date Written: November 5, 2008

Abstract

The single set of accounting standards is conceived to be the path to bring accounting convergence globally. Given the important role of formal harmonization/convergence plays in accounting profession and global capital market, this study focuses on the methods and methodology for the measurement of formal accounting convergence. Based on reviewing and evaluating the existing methods for measuring the level of harmonization/convergence between any two sets of accounting standards, we propose a new method of matching and fuzzy clustering analysis to assess the convergence progress of national accounting standards (NAS) with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from whole and single standards respectively. Single standards are clustered according to their convergence level, which may indicate further convergence emphasis. As an illustrative example, the achievements made in China are evaluated by using this new method. The result reveals that this new method can measure the convergence level of NAS with IFRS more clearly and informatively.

Keywords: Formal accounting convergence, Measurement, Fuzzy clustering analysis, Chinese accounting standards

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

QU, Xiaohui and Zhang, Guohua, Measuring the Convergence of National Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards: The Application of Fuzzy Clustering Analysis (November 5, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1295884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1295884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Adhikari , R H Tondkar
Environmental Factors Influencing Accounting Disclosure Requirements of Global Stock Exchanges
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 105 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Aisbitt
Measurement of Harmony of Financial Reporting Within and Between Countries: The Case of the Nordic Countries
The European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Archer , P Delvaille , S Mcleay
The Measurement of Harmonization and the Comparability of Financial Statement Items: Within-Country and Between-Country Effects
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 98 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Fontes , L L Rodrigues , R Craig
Measuring Convergence of National Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards
Accounting Forum , volume 29 , p. 415 - 436 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,702
RANK
73,797
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies