Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Probabilistic Forecasts of Stock Prices in a Developing Stock Market

European Journal of Operational Research, 74, pp. 350-358, 1994

Posted: 23 Nov 2008

Yaz Gulnur Muradoglu

University of Illinois Springfield

Dilek Onkal

Bilkent University

Date Written: 1994

Abstract

Recent literature on the accuracy of forecasting in financial markets reveals contradictory results. These discrepancies can be attributed to the differences in forecasting environments as well as the differences in forecaster expertise that are employed by the researchers. Since the use of point and interval predictions by themselves do not aid in explaining the various aspects of forecaster performance, probabilistic forecasting provides a better alternative that can be used to gain insight into forecasting accuracy in such settings. This study aims to test the effects of forecaster expertise and forecasting environment on forecasting accuracy. Accordingly, various aspects of forecasting performance are studied in a developing stock-market framework.

Keywords: Forecasting, Probability, Financial, Stock price

Suggested Citation:

Muradoglu, Yaz Gulnur and Onkal, Dilek, Evaluating Probabilistic Forecasts of Stock Prices in a Developing Stock Market (1994). European Journal of Operational Research, 74, pp. 350-358, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1298519
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies