Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Economy Risk and Company Failure: An Examination of UK Quoted Firms

35 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2008 Last revised: 15 Jul 2012

John Hunter

Brunel University London - Department of Economics and Finance

Natalia Isachenkova

Kingston Business School

Date Written: March 17, 2006

Abstract

Considerable attention has been directed in the recent finance and economics literature to issues concerning the effects on company failure risk of changes in the macroeconomic environment. This paper examines the accounting ratio-based and macroeconomic determinants of insolvency exit of UK large industrials during the early 1990s with a view to improve understanding of company failure risk. Failure determinants are revealed from estimates based on a cross-section of 369 quoted firms, which is followed by an assessment of predictive performance based on a series of time-to-failure-specific logit functions, as is typical in the literature. Within the traditional for cross-sectional data studies framework, a more complete model of failure risk is developed by adding to a set of traditional financial statement-based inputs, the two variables capturing aggregate economy risk - one-year lagged, unanticipated changes in the nominal interest rate and in the real exchange rate. Alternative estimates of prediction error are obtained, first, by analytically adjusting the apparent error rate for the downward bias and, second, by generating holdout predictions. More complete, augmented with the two macroeconomic variables models demonstrate improved out of estimation sample classificatory accuracy at risk horizons ranging from one to four years prior to failure, with the results being quite robust across a wide range of cut-off probability values, for both failing and non-failed firms.

Although in terms of the individual ratio significance and overall predictive accuracy, the findings of the present study may not be directly comparable with the evidence from prior research due to differing data sets and model specifications, the results are intuitively appealing. First, the results affirm the important explanatory role of liquidity, gearing, and profitability in the company failure process. Second, the findings for the failure probability appear to demonstrate that shocks from unanticipated changes in interest and exchange rates may matter as much as the underlying changes in firm-specific characteristics of liquidity, gearing, and profitability. Obtained empirical determinants suggest that during the 1990s recession, shifts in the real exchange rate and rises in the nominal interest rate, were associated with a higher propensity of industrial company to exit via insolvency, thus indicating links to a loss in competitiveness and to the effects of high gearing. The results provide policy implications for reducing the company sector vulnerability to financial distress and failure while highlighting that changes in macroeconomic conditions should be an important ingredient of possible extensions of company failure prediction models.

Keywords: Company Failure, Aggregate Economy Risk, Unexpected Changes in Interest and Exchange

JEL Classification: G33

Suggested Citation:

Hunter, John and Isachenkova, Natalia, Aggregate Economy Risk and Company Failure: An Examination of UK Quoted Firms (March 17, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1299056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1299056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An 'Incomplete Contracts' Approach to Financial Contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 94 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Y Alici
Neural Networks in Corporate Failure Prediction: The UK Experience Posted: 1995
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 610 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman , R Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA Analysis: A New Model to Identify Bankruptcy Risk of Corporations
Journal of Banking and Finance , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977-06
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
John Hunter , Natalia Isachenkova
Aggregate economy risk and company failure: An examination of UK quoted firms in the early 1990s
Journal of Policy Modeling , volume 28 , issue 8 , p. 911 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
RANK
427,290
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Company Accounts-Based Modelling of Business Failures and the Implications for Financial Stability

By Philip Bunn and Victoria Redwood

Macro Economic Instability and Business Exit: Determinants of Failures and Acquisitions of Large UK Firms

By Arnab Bhattacharjee, Chris Higson, ...

The Cross Sectional Dynamics of the Us Business Cycle: 1950-1999

By Chris Higson, Sean Holly, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies