Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Repeated Electoral Competition Over Non-Linear Income Tax Schedules

36 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2008

Georges Casamatta

Toulouse School of Economics (GREMAQ-CNRS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Helmuth Cremer

University of Toulouse (GREMAQ & IDEI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Philippe De Donder

University of Toulouse 1 - Toulouse School of Economics (TSE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 13, 2008

Abstract

We consider a repeated electoral competition game between two parties, each representing a constituent with a given income level. Parties are unable to commit to any policy before the election; they choose a non-linear income tax schedule once elected. In each period, citizens cast a vote either for the incumbent or for the challenger. We first show that there exist (pure strategy) subgame perfect equilibria where both parties choose the most-preferred tax schedule of their constituent, subject to the constraint that they are reelected. We characterize a specific class of these BPR (Best Policy with Reelection) equilibria in which one of the parties plays its constituent's unconstrained optimal tax function. Equilibrium tax schedules are always piecewise linear. Depending on the income levels of the two parties' constituents, we obtain either classical left-vs-right equilibria (where poorer people vote for one party and richer people for the other one) or ends-against-the-middle equilibria (where both poor and rich people vote for one party while the middle class vote for the other party). In both types of equilibria both parties propose the same tax schedule to a subset of the population.

Keywords: Postelection politics, no commitment, ends-against-the-middle, piecewise linear income tax

JEL Classification: D72, H24

Suggested Citation:

Casamatta, Georges and Cremer, Helmuth and De Donder, Philippe, Repeated Electoral Competition Over Non-Linear Income Tax Schedules (November 13, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1300838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1300838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J S Banks , J Duggan
A dynamic model of democratic elections in multidimensional policy spaces
Quarterly Journal of Political Science , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 99 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Baron , E Kalai
The simplest equilibria of a majority division game
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 290 - 301 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Bohn , C Stuart
Voting and nonlinear taxes in a stylized representative democracy Posted: 2005
O Carbonell-Nicolau , E A Ok
Voting over income taxation
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 134 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 86 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,321
RANK
564,093
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies