Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Doing Good Good for You? Yes, Charitable Contributions Enhance Revenue Growth

NYU Working Paper No. CHRISTINE PETROVITS-01

36 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2008

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2006

Abstract

A key question concerning socially responsible corporate activities is whether such actions achieve traditional goals, such as profit maximization and shareholder value creation, or whether such activities represent a drain on resources by opportunistic managers. Much of the debate about the legitimacy of and justification for socially responsible activities would be settled if it is convincingly shown that they further traditional business goals. In this study we provide such evidence. Using a large sample of charitable contributions made by public companies from 1989 through 2000, and a statistical methodology that distinguishes causation from association, we document that charitable contributions enhance the future revenue growth of the donors. In particular, we find evidence that, for firms in industries that are highly sensitive to consumer perception, corporate giving is associated with subsequent sales growth. On the other hand, our results do not provide strong evidence that revenue growth drives future charitable giving.

Suggested Citation:

Lev, Baruch Itamar, Is Doing Good Good for You? Yes, Charitable Contributions Enhance Revenue Growth (July 2006). NYU Working Paper No. CHRISTINE PETROVITS-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1301331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
T W Anderson , C Hsiao
Formulation and estimation of dynamic models using panel data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 18 , p. 47 - 82 Posted: 1982
Crossref
M Arellano
Computing robust standard errors for within-groups estimators
Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics , volume 49 , p. 431 - 434 Posted: 1987
Crossref
M Arellano
A note on Anderson-Hsiao estimator for panel data
Economic Letters , volume 31 , p. 337 - 341 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R F Balotti , J Hanks
Giving at the office: a reappraisal of charitable contributions by corporations
The Business Lawyer , volume 55 , p. 965 - 996 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,810
RANK
148,252
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does it Pay to Be Good...And Does it Matter? A Meta-Analysis of the Relationship between Corporate Social and Financial Performance

By Joshua D. Margolis, Hillary Anger Elfenbein, ...

How Well Do Social Ratings Actually Measure Corporate Social Responsibility?

By Aaron Chatterji, David I. Levine, ...

Is Doing Good Good for You? How Corporate Charitable Contributions Enhance Revenue Growth

By Baruch Lev, Christine Petrovits, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies