Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hedge Funds, Systemic Risk, and the Financial Crisis of 2007-2008: Written Testimony for the House Oversight Committee Hearing on Hedge Funds

34 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2008

Andrew W. Lo

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Laboratory for Financial Engineering

Date Written: November 13, 2008

Abstract

This document is the written testimony submitted to the House Oversight Committee for its hearing on hedge funds and the financial crisis, held November 13, 2008, and is not a formal academic research paper, but is intended for a broader audience of policymakers and regulators. Academic readers may be alarmed by the lack of comprehensive citations and literature review, the imprecise and qualitative nature of certain arguments, and the abundance of illustrative examples, analogies, and metaphors. Accordingly, such readers are hereby forewarned - this paper is not research, but is instead a summary of the policy implications that I have drawn from my interpretation of that research.

I begin with a proposal to measure systemic risk, and argue that this is the natural starting point for regulatory reform since it is impossible to manage something that cannot be measured. Then I review the relation between systemic risk and hedge funds, and show that early warning signs of the current crisis did exist in the hedge-fund industry as far back as 2004. However, I argue that financial crises may be an unavoidable aspect of human behavior, and the best we can do is to acknowledge this tendency and be properly prepared. This behavioral pattern, as well as traditional economic motives for regulation - public goods, externalities, and incomplete markets - are relevant for systemic risk or its converse, systemic safety, and I suggest applying these concepts to the functions of the financial system to yield a rational process for regulatory reform. Also, I propose the formation of a new investigative office patterned after the National Transportation Safety Board to provide the kind of information aggregation and transparency that is called for in the previous sections. Another aspect of transparency involves fair-value accounting, and I review some of the recent arguments for its suspension and propose developing a new branch of accounting focusing exclusively on risk. I conclude with a discussion of the role of financial technology and education in the current crisis, and argue that more finance training is needed, not less.

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G38, M41, M44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lo, Andrew W., Hedge Funds, Systemic Risk, and the Financial Crisis of 2007-2008: Written Testimony for the House Oversight Committee Hearing on Hedge Funds (November 13, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1301217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1301217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
This surcharge may be viewed as a means of correcting some the externalities associated with the impact of derivatives on systemic risk. A minuscule surcharge on, say, credit default swaps, could support enough finance Ph.D. students at every major university to have a noticeable and permanent impact on the level of financial expertise in both industry and government. of MIT degrees awarded in engineering and in finance from Posted: 1999
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Z Bodie , D Gray , R Merton
New Framework for Measuring and Managing Macrofinancial Risk and Financial Stability Posted: 2007
C Bluhm
CDO Modeling: Techniques, Examples and Applications Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12,514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
44,357
RANK
880
46 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Offshore Hedge Funds: Survival and Performance 1989-1995

By Stephen J. Brown, William N. Goetzmann, ...

Offshore Hedge Funds: Survival and Performance 1989-1995

By Stephen J. Brown, William N. Goetzmann, ...

Characteristics of Risk and Return in Risk Arbitrage

By Mark L. Mitchell and Todd C. Pulvino

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies