Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence in a Private Firm and Low Litigation Risk Setting

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2008 Last revised: 6 Jul 2009

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 6, 2009

Abstract

We examine the issue of auditor independence in a unique setting. Specifically, we test for auditor independence impairment among (1) private client firms, for which the risk of auditor reputation loss is lower than for publicly traded firms, and (2) in a low litigation environment (i.e., Norway) that further reduces the expected costs to the auditor associated with independence impairment. We have thus chosen a setting that gives independence impairment its best chance of being detected if it exists. Using a large sample of private Norwegian firms, we analyze whether auditors who receive higher fees are less likely to issue modified opinions. Despite the low litigation risk and the reduced reputation risk, our empirical results provide no evidence that auditors compromise their independence through fee dependence. These results are robust to controlling for the expected portion of fees, to different sample specifications, to the use of both levels and changes specifications, and to a number of sensitivity analyses.

Keywords: Auditing, auditor independence, private firms, litigation risk, reputation, accounting, professional ethics

JEL Classification: M49, M47, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Langli, John Christian, Auditor Independence in a Private Firm and Low Litigation Risk Setting (July 6, 2009). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1304154
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
B S Aamo
Kan vi stole på revisorene? Og hvem bør ta ansvar for hva? (Can we trust auditors? And who should take responsibility for what?). Speech delivered to the Norwegian Institute of Public Accountants Posted: 2002-10-01
Abdel-Khalik
Research Opportunities in Auditing: The Second Decade Posted: 1988
N Ahadiat , J J Mackie
Ethics education in accounting: An investigation of the importance of ethics as a factor in the recruiting decisions of public accounting firms
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 11 , p. 243 - 257 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Anwer S. Ahmed , Scott Duellman , Ahmed M. Abdel-Meguid
The Sarbanes Oxley Act, Auditor Independence and Accounting Accruals: An Empirical Analysis
Pages: 38 Posted: 10 Mar 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
15 Citations
Kris Hardies
Auditor Independence Impairment: Bonding between Clients and Individual Engagement Partners
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2011 · Last revised: 3 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nina Sormunen , Kim Klarskov Jeppesen , Stefan Sundgren , Tobias Svanström
Harmonisation of Audit Practice: Empirical Evidence from Going‐Concern Reporting in the Nordic Countries
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 17, Issue 3, pp. 308-326, 2013 · 19 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gus De Franco , Hila Fogel-Yaari , Heather Li
MD&A Textual Similarity and Auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 39 (3): 79–96. https://doi.org/10.2308/ajpt-52790, · 55 Pages · Posted: 15 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 387
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ole-Kristian Hope , Dushyantkumar Vyas
Private Company Finance and Financial Reporting
Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2928730 · 53 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2017 · Last revised: 16 Apr 2017 · Downloads: 410
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,088
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,342
RANK
46,432
15 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies