Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship of Budgetary Participation and Reliance on Accounting Performance Measures with Individual-Level Consequent Variables: A Meta-Analysis

European Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 203-239

Posted: 21 Nov 2008 Last revised: 18 Oct 2009

Klaus Derfuss

FernUniversität in Hagen

Date Written: November 19, 2008

Abstract

Despite its long history, extant research on the relations among budgetary participation, reliance on accounting performance measures (RAPM) and individual-level consequent variables remains marked by conflicting findings. To solve these conflicts, prior research has introduced variables that might mediate or moderate the relations. But many studies use small samples, and their conflicting findings might be due to statistical artefacts, such as sampling error. This article undertakes a meta-analysis to assess whether prior findings are homogeneous after correcting for these artefacts and to explore the moderating effects of study design choices regarding construct measurement, random versus non-random sampling and industry differences. Many relations of participative budgeting and RAPM are homogeneous; several are truly heterogeneous. Construct measurement emerges as the most important moderator: Different measures of managerial performance explain the relation of participative budgeting to managerial performance, and different measures of RAPM largely clarify the relation of RAPM to budgetary participation. This relation also seems contingent on industry differences. These findings have important implications for research and managerial practice.

Keywords: Budgetary participation, Reliance on accounting performance measures, Behavioural accounting research, Attitudes, Managerial performance, Meta-analysis

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Derfuss, Klaus, The Relationship of Budgetary Participation and Reliance on Accounting Performance Measures with Individual-Level Consequent Variables: A Meta-Analysis (November 19, 2008). European Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 203-239, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1304123
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies