Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Structural Models for Default Prediction

61 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2008

Gunnar Grass

HEC Montréal

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 25, 2008

Abstract

I propose a new procedure for extracting probabilities of default from structural credit risk models based on virtual credit spreads (VCS) and implement this approach assuming a simple Merton (1974) model of capital structure. VCS are derived from the increase in the payout to debtholders necessary to offset the impact of an increase in asset variance on the option value of debt and equity. In contrast to real-world credit spreads, VCS do not contain risk premia for default timing and recovery uncertainty, thus yielding a purer estimate of physical default probabilities. Relative to the Merton distance to default (DD) measure, my measure (i) predicts higher credit risk for safe firms and lower credit risk for firms with high volatility and leverage (ii) requires fewer parameter assumptions (iii) clearly outperforms the DD measure when used to predict corporate default.

Keywords: Structural Credit Risk Models, Bankruptcy Prediction, Risk-Neutral Pricing

Suggested Citation:

Grass, Gunnar, Using Structural Models for Default Prediction (November 25, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1307059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1307059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman , B Brady , A Resti , A Sironi
The link between default and recovery rates: Theory, empirical evidence and implications. Stern School of Business Posted: 2003
Crossref
Antje Berndt , Rohan Douglas , James Darrell Duffie , Mark Ferguson , David Schranz
Measuring Default Risk Premia from Default Swap Rates and EDFs
BIS Working Paper No. 173, EFA 2004 Maastricht Meetings Paper No. 5121 Pages: 56 Posted: 20 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Bharath , T Shumway
Forecasting default with the merton distance to default model
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Gunnar Grass
The Impact of the Corporate Diversification on the Option Value of Equity
46 Pages · Posted: 25 Mar 2008 · Last revised: 15 Feb 2009 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,504
RANK
106,095
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Default Risk in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou and Yuhang Xing

News Related to Future GDP Growth as a Risk Factor in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

News Related to Future GDP Growth as Risk Factors in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies