Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Alternative Methods of Accounting for Actuarial Gains and Losses

29 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2008 Last revised: 8 Dec 2008

Ana Morais

University Institute of Lisbon (IUL) - School of Business

Date Written: November, 28 2008

Abstract

The adoption of IAS 19: Employee benefits (2004) provided managers with an important accounting choice affecting the time and placement of actuarial gains and losses recognition. IAS 19 enables a choice between three major accounting methods related to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit plans: profit or loss method, equity recognition method and corridor method. The objective of this paper is to compare the ability of the three alternative methods for recognising actuarial gains and losses to reflect companies' value. We manually collect information about the accounting method of recognising actuarial gains and losses adopted by 91 European companies listed in EURONEXT100, in 2005, 2006 and 2007. We applied regression analysis to investigate the value relevance of financial information under equity recognition method, profit or loss method and corridor method. Findings suggest that the recognition of all actuarial gains and losses in equity best reflects the market's valuation of actuarial gains and losses.

Keywords: actuarial gains and losses, corridor, equity, defined benefit plans.

JEL Classification: M4.

Suggested Citation:

Morais, Ana, Value Relevance of Alternative Methods of Accounting for Actuarial Gains and Losses (November, 28 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Accounting Standards Board , volume 17 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Amen
Simulation-based comparison of existent IAS 19 Accounting options
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Amir , E Gordon
Firms' choice of estimation parameters: empirical evidence from SFAS 106
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 11 , issue 3 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,766
RANK
85,416
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies