Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Value a Firm's Commitment to Social Activities? The Moderating Role of Intangibles and the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

44 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2008

Waymond Rodgers

University of California, Riverside

Hiu Lam Choy

Drexel University

Andrés Guiral

University of Alcala

Date Written: December 4, 2008

Abstract

Previous empirical research has found mixed results of the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) investments on financial performance. In this paper we contribute to the literature by exploring the complex relationship between intangibles, CSR, and financial performance. In a two stage investor decision-making model we control for firms' investing in intangibles in our analysis of the impact of CSR on both accounting and market-based measures of financial performance. In addition, we study how a change in the legal environment, the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, affects the role of intangibles and its impact on the relation between CSR and firm value. Both Partial Least Squares and traditional OLS regression analyses were carried out to measure the impact of CSR intangibles, and its interaction, for a sample of the top corporate citizens as complied by KLD Research and Analytics. Our findings suggest that (1) a firm's commitment to social activities (CSR) contributes to its financial performance; (2) intangibles moderate the relation between CSR and firm value; and (3) an increase of the impact of intangibles on firm value in the post-SOX period to the detriment of CSR which is no longer significant.

Keywords: Intangibles, Corporate Social Responsibility, Investor decision-making, Sarbanes Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G12, G38, M14, M41, D81

Suggested Citation:

Rodgers, Waymond and Choy, Hiu Lam and Guiral, Andres, Do Investors Value a Firm's Commitment to Social Activities? The Moderating Role of Intangibles and the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (December 4, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1311473 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1311473
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
K Aupperle , A Carroll , J Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Crossref
B Ballou , N H Godwin , R B Shortridge
Firm value and employee attitudes on workplace quality
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 329 - 341 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M L Barnett
Stakeholder influence capacity and the variability of financial returns to corporate social responsibility
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 1 - 50 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Markku Vieru , Janne Peltoniemi
Sustainability Reporting, Ethics, and Strategic Management Strategies for Modern Organizations
, p. 146 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Md Hakim Ali , Md Akther Uddin , Md. Atiqur Rahman Khan , Blake Goud
Faith‐based versus value‐based finance: Is there any portfolio diversification benefit between responsible and Islamic finance?
International Journal of Finance & Economics Posted: 2020
Crossref
Kjartan Sigurdsson , Marina Candi
Saying and Doing: Social Responsibility Declared and Applied
Creativity and Innovation Management, Vol. 29, Issue 1, pp. 128-140, 2020 · 13 Pages · Posted: 5 May 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Clarence Goh
Keeping Investors Onboard: A Corporate Social Responsibility Crisis Response Framework
Accountancy, Business and the Public Interest, April 2018, Vol. 17: 164 – 175., · 20 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 48
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
558
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,966
RANK
113,283
6 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies