Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Doctoral Juries-Based Social Network of Spanish Accounting Scholars (Red social de contabilidad en España a partir de los tribunales de tesis)

Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 36, No. 136, pp. 707-726, 2007

20 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2008 Last revised: 3 Nov 2010

Cristóbal Casanueva Rocha

University of Seville - Department of Business Administration and Marketing

Bernabé Escobar

University of Seville

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

There is increasing recognition that extra-scientific issues such as social structures have an important impact on the investigation themes, in scientific and intellectual evolution and on knowledge dissemination. Crane (1972) proposed the notion of 'invisible colleges' to refer to groups of academics with privileged connections. However, in the Continental European context of accounting research, Panozzo (1997) and Carmona et al. (1999) elicit that publications are less indicative of the existence of different research traditions. This investigation explores the social structure of Spanish accounting academia. The social context analysed derives from the involvement in the juries that assessed PhDs on accounting in Spain for the period 1995-2004. After defining a network of more than 250 academics, the paper explores its structure, the existence of sub-networks and central positions, showing how the structure of the social network is associated with the election of the PhD jury and his President.

Keywords: PhD thesis, PhD Jury, Accounting, Social Networks Analysis, Centrality

JEL Classification: A23, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Casanueva Rocha, Cristóbal and Escobar, Bernabé and Larrinaga, Carlos, A Doctoral Juries-Based Social Network of Spanish Accounting Scholars (Red social de contabilidad en España a partir de los tribunales de tesis) (2007). Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 36, No. 136, pp. 707-726, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1314859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
F J Acedo , C Barroso , C Casanueva , J L Galán
«Social Networks in the Field of Management»
Journal of Management Studies , volume 43 , p. 957 - 983 Posted: 2006
F Alía
Fuentes de Información para Historiadores Posted: 1998
O Amat , J Blake , C Gowthorpe , E Oliveras
«Análisis de autores, citas y revistas de contabilidad en España»
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 821 - 850 Posted: 1998
A L Barabási , H Jeong , R Ravasz , Z Neda , T Bishkek , A Schubert
Physica A Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,187
RANK
718,946
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies