Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Perspectives in Accounting Research: A Review (Perspectivas alternativas de investigación en contabilidad: Una revisión)

Revista de Contabilidad - Spanish Accounting Review, Vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 103-131, 1999

29 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2009

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Date Written: 1999

Abstract

Although mainstream accounting research is accomplished under functionalist assumptions, alternative schools of accounting research have emerged in the last few years. They have different foundations: interpretive studies, critical perspective and studies of the relationship between accounting and power. Through the revision of the beliefs that pervade each research approach, the aim of this paper is to sustain the opportunity of undertaking studies based on assumptions alternative to functionalism. In conclusion, this paper: (a) supports the validity of the alternative perspectives on accounting research; and (b) demonstrates that different scientific positions provide enlightenment.

Keywords: accounting theory, research paradigms, pluralism, alternative perspectives

Suggested Citation:

Larrinaga, Carlos, Alternative Perspectives in Accounting Research: A Review (Perspectivas alternativas de investigación en contabilidad: Una revisión) (1999). Revista de Contabilidad - Spanish Accounting Review, Vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 103-131, 1999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1314808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Jennifer Gómez
La economía ecológica y el poder constitutivo de la contabilidad: en contra de la cosificación y la economización del mundo, contradicciones e invisibilidades del paradigma neoclásico (Ecological Economic and the Constitutive Power of Accounting: Against Reification and Economization the World, Contradictions and Invisibility of the Neoclassical Paradigm)
22 Pages · Posted: 23 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jennifer Gómez
Partiendo de un análisis del comportamiento de los mercados de valores: Es adecuado la implementación de las normas internacionales de información financiera en nuestro país? (Based on an Analysis About Behavior of Stock Markets: Is It Right the Implementation of the International Accounting Standard Boards in Our Country?)
21 Pages · Posted: 23 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 87
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
754
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,120
RANK
76,893
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies