Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Initial Placement Matter for Equity Analysts' Forecast Accuracy

41 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2008 Last revised: 22 Nov 2011

Jess Cornaggia

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Lin Zou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 23, 2008

Abstract

Equity analysts who are more accurate in forecasting earnings tend to work at higher quality brokerage houses. This relation is endogenous, making it difficult to infer causality between brokerage house quality and forecast accuracy. We identify the exogenous portion of equity analysts' initial placements with instruments including stock market conditions, market-wide investment banking activities, and market-wide net hiring or retiring of analysts. We find a significant effect of the exogenous portion of initial placement on analysts' career performance. Analysts with initial placements at top brokerage houses issue more accurate forecasts than their peers with similar ability, but worse initial placements. We find this relation exists because analysts at top brokerage houses have better access to information. Consistent with the access-to-information story, this relation becomes much weaker and almost disappears after the enactment of Regulation Fair Disclosure.

Suggested Citation:

Cornaggia, Jess and Zou, Lin, Does Initial Placement Matter for Equity Analysts' Forecast Accuracy (September 23, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1314441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1314441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Top Broker Non-top Broker
B Panel
Define top brokerage firms as the top 10 firms in terms of number of analysts in house. Number of New Analysts Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,664
RANK
564,093
3 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies