Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Broadening Accounting Fair Value in Three Dimensions: Strands in the Current SEC Roundtable Discussions

13 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2008

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Date Written: November 12, 2008

Abstract

This Paper is intended to familiarize Russian speaking audience with the current SEC-sponsored inquiry into the concept and methodology for accounting fair value measurements. In particular, it draws on the arguments expressed by participants in the two SEC roundtables held in July and October of this year and provides the analysis of the general thrust of such arguments.

It is deemed that the important takeaway from the discussion is that fair value in its positivist SFAS 157 interpretation is a seriously flawed concept and a broader approach to this notion is called for - one which would legitimize and incorporate subject-specific investment value perspective (dimension) into the concept when it is impossible or not sensible to look 'through the eyes of the market'. In the Paper, this conceptual (definitional) dimension of fair value is treated as the 'depth' of this notion.

As to its breadth (the extent to which the concept is applied to balance sheet items of various types) the contention is made in favor of the broadening of this dimension, too. It is because macroeconomic impacts and pro-cyclicality of the fair value concept (as currently practiced) not merely dictate to see common sense in the deepening of the concept but, above all, necessitate its expansion into the area of valuing not only assets but also liabilities of financial entities. Then, the pro-cyclicality of measurements on either side of the balance sheet would tend to mutually countervail itself. Finally, as to the 'length' of this concept (i.e. the extent of its disclosure in financial statements and extent of its influence on the bottom line) the argument is likewise on the expansionary side of this dimension. To take a leaf from a cognate book, Professional Valuation practice has already evolved the appropriate level of disclosure in the statutory specifications for its reports (e.g. USPAP requirements). It is urged that whenever possible a similar level of disclosure stringency should be maintained for accounting fair value measurements As to its details, The Paper explains the mechanism of pro-cyclicality of FV measurements and accounts for the effect of leverage of financial institutions in this context. The concept of liquidity pricing vs. fundamental pricing is also given elucidation. It is recommended that other contiguous types of economic measurements (such as Professional Valuation and Investment Valuation) take heed of the current attempt of the accounting measurements community to see the broad picture and adopt the macroeconomic perspective as a new prism through which to look at everything they do.

Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.

Keywords: Fair Value concept in accounting, SFAS 157, procyclicality of accounting measurements, liquidity pricing vs. fundamental pricing

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, D46

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I., Broadening Accounting Fair Value in Three Dimensions: Strands in the Current SEC Roundtable Discussions (November 12, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1315489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
271,899
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies