Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation at the Time of Crisis: Methodological Issues

16 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2008 Last revised: 5 Oct 2009

Andrey I. Artemenkov

Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT); Ariel University

Date Written: December 12, 2008

Abstract

These slides presented at the International Conference of the Ukranian Property Expertize and Management Institute (Odessa, Sept. 7-9, 2009) look into current valuation predicaments (specifically, with respect to the Professional Valuation) and discern the lack of vision among its practitioners. This seriously compromises the role of valuation as the public interest profession. The contention is made that the role of valuers in the pricing processes is non-neutral, that to some extent it is true that Valuation profession in aggregate not merely reflects but creates prices and seriously influences pricing processes on many markets.

That is why it is of primary importance to understand that valuers should fulfill their aspirations to work in public interest and towards the sustainable development of markets, and to realize that their current practices are highly procyclical, or, worse, tautological. Yet their existing methodology based on methodological individualism and the transference of notions from the 'ideal market setting' seriously handicaps them in these efforts and perpetuates current troubles. The plea is made to create the International Multidisciplinary Committee on Economic Measurements (including representation from Professional valuation, Investment-Financial Valuation, Accounting Measurements etc) to inquire into the root causes of defects in existing valuation methodology which is grounded in the unsustainable neoclassic-modernist- positivist ideological synthesis.

Of the inferences made are the following:

-The pricing authority and power of Professional Valuation is on the wane, as suggested by RICS/IPD Valuation 'accuracy' indices. -The methodological grounds of Economic Measurements are neglected (and there has been very little development here since 1970th, despite the veritable flowering of complex valuation techniques) - Various types of Economic Measurements are too disjointed to offer any coherent perspective into the future or see the benefits of interdisciplinary dialogue. - The not-so-negligible role of Valuers (of different stripes) as the party implicated in the fomentation of the current economic crisis is explored and put into context. -The Professional Valuation fails to perceive real foundations of its methodology and has much to gain by looking back into its original works written during the time of its institutionalization in US of 1930th and even to the thought of antiquity. -There is going to be more acute understanding of the effects of liquidity pricing and more distrust of fundamental pricing as currently practiced. -Public value considerations need to become the integral part of all commercial valuations, yet existing methods to elicit it are seriously deficient in point of underlying methodology. - Existing Economic Measurements Standards (such as SFAS 157, IVSs, PEVG) are in need of serious revision and their redevelopment needs to incorporate macro-economic perspectives of the impact of the respective professions on the markets.

Keywords: Economic Measurements, Professional Valuation (and History of), Methodological individualism in Valuation, liquidity pricing, Impact of valaution on market pricing

JEL Classification: D46, G12

Suggested Citation:

Artemenkov, Andrey I., Valuation at the Time of Crisis: Methodological Issues (December 12, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1315229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,907
RANK
102,328
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies