Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Performance Measurement Approaches in Accounting Research

Finnish Journal of Business Economics, No. 2, pp. 143-184, 2005

42 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2008 Last revised: 22 Jan 2009

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Abstract

Whilst a substantial body of empirical accounting literature has examined whether selected accounting, auditing, and management control systems, practices, and innovations improve performance, the various performance measurement approaches used in these studies have been addressed and compared less extensively. This comparative literature analysis investigates prior literature to develop a framework for assessing and comparing the following three primary approaches to performance measurement: the accounting-based, goal-centered, and behavioral approahes. 100 empirical studies are reviewed to illustrate how the concept of performance can be, and has been, measured. Following that, an inventory of the applied methods, samples, performance criteria, and performance measures is made. Then, a methodological analysis is conducted to assess and compare the advantages and disadvantages of the various approaches according to the most common methods on several dimensions reflecting recent advancements made in accounting research. Future research possibilities are also suggested.

Keywords: accounting, performance measurement, performance criteria, performance measures, literature analysis

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, L2, L21

Suggested Citation:

Kihn, Lili-Anne, Comparing Performance Measurement Approaches in Accounting Research. Finnish Journal of Business Economics, No. 2, pp. 143-184, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
710
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,503
RANK
83,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies