Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Corporate Governance and Identifying its Formulating Factors: The Case of Greece

42 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2008 Last revised: 7 May 2009

Themistokles G. Lazarides

Technological Educational Institute of Western Macedonia

Evaggelos Drimpetas

Democritus University of Thrace

Date Written: December 18, 2008

Abstract

Purpose: The paper seeks to establish a benchmark for the evaluation of the quality of Corporate Governance (CG) and to detect the factors that affect it in Greece.

Design/Methodology: An Index of corporate governance quality is constructed using binary variables. Data from annual reports are used to identify the mechanisms and practices of corporate governance. An Ordinal Probit model is used to identify the drivers of corporate governance.

Findings: CG quality in Greece is quite low, in terms of international best practices. The main drivers of CG quality are firm size, leadership or power concentration and board characteristics. Greek firms' CG quality dependent more on the balance of power within the firm, rather than performance or market for corporate control.

Research Limitations: Data for the constructed index have been collected from the annual reports and not from questionnaires.

Practical Implications: The study provides evidence that there is a different set of factors that affect CG quality than the ones in the Anglo-Saxon countries. The paper addresses the issue of proposed CG mechanisms relevance with the real CG problems. Identifying the factors that have an impact on CG quality, policy makers can focus on them to create a legal - regulatory framework that can improve the level of CG.

Originality/value: The paper does not only measure CG, but it pinpoints its formulating factors. Furthermore, a need for new benchmarking tools to address the fundamental elements of corporate environment (ownership concentration, lack of market for corporate control, etc.) in Continental Europe is highlighted.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Rating, Greece, Benchmarking, Evaluation

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Lazarides, Themistokles G. and Drimpetas, Evaggelos, Evaluating Corporate Governance and Identifying its Formulating Factors: The Case of Greece (December 18, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1317629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1317629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Lucian A. Bebchuk , Alma Cohen , Allen Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 783-827, February 2009, Harvard Law School John M. Olin Center Discussion Paper No. 491 (2004) Pages: 61 Posted: 21 Sep 2004 Last revised: 17 Apr 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Becht
European corporate governance: Trading off liquidity against control
European Economic Review , volume 43 , p. 1071 - 1083 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Beiner , W Drobetz , M Schmid , M Zimmermann
An Integrated Framework of Corporate Governance and Firm valuation
European Financial Management , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 249 - 283 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Black , H Jang , W Kim
Does Corporate Governance Affect Firms' Market Values? Evidence from Korea
Economics and Organisation , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 366 - 413 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,970
RANK
135,822
6 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Greece: Developments and Policy Implications

By Loukas Spanos

The State of Corporate Governance: Experience from Country Assessments

By Olivier Fremond and Mierta Capaul

Executive Board Members' Remuneration: A Longitudinal Study

By Themistokles G. Lazarides, Evaggelos Drimpetas, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies