Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization to Glocalization: A Conceptual Analysis

11 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2008

Mohammad Shamsuddoha

Western Illinois State University; University of Chittagong

Date Written: December 29, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the evolution and transformation of the concept of globalization to glocalization. The paper will also trace the history and the development of the concept of "glocalization", which originated in Japan as a popular business strategy. The paper examine in broad terms concepts, theories and principles of glocalization in business perspectives. The paper wants to focus on the epistemological analysis of the globalization and glocalization themes. In Economic Sciences, it is often difficult to trace the origin of concepts: these concepts are often products of collective endeavors. Inside these processes, from the "post-globalization era", a new ethical feeling is born to measure the corporate performances that are business, social and ethical performances: these processes will require new accounting instruments and new accounting professional profiles. The article also provides a discussion on the importance of well-defined concepts and approaches used by scholars and by practitioners in various contexts. It is troublesome when the use of a concept or an approach is ambiguous and confusing. The discussion focuses on and demonstrates through, the globalization of business activities and the term 'global strategy'. The widespread use of popular jargon cannot cover the fact that a genuine or true global strategy approach appears to be a managerial viewpoint. The terms "glocal strategy" and the 'glocalization' of business activities are introduced to enhance the accuracy of the present usage by scholars and by practitioners of the term global strategy and the phenomenon often described as the globalization of business activities.

Keywords: Globalization, Glocalization, Localization

Suggested Citation:

Shamsuddoha, Mohammad, Globalization to Glocalization: A Conceptual Analysis (December 29, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1321662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1321662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
G Arrighi
Globalization and Historical Macrosociology
Sociology for the Twenty-First Century: Continuities and Cutting Edges Posted: 2000
R Boyer , D Drache
States Against Markets: The Limits of Globalization Posted: 1996
N Brenner
Global Cities, Glocal States: Global City Formation and State Territorial Restructuring in Contemporary Europe
Review of International Political Economy , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Castells
End of Millennium Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,899
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,028
RANK
4,377
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies