Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interacting with Interactive Data: The Effects of Interface and Context on Mapping Financial Statement Elements to the XBRL U.S. GAAP Taxonomy

Posted: 8 Jan 2009 Last revised: 11 Feb 2009

Roger S. Debreceny

Shidler College of Business

Stephanie Farewell

University of Arkansas at Little Rock

Nolan Kido

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Date Written: January 4, 2009

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission has mandated the phase-in of an interactive data format termed XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language). Given that successful mapping of financial statement line items to the XBRL taxonomy is critical to the accuracy of the instance document, it is important to understand factors that influence mapping success. We study the impact of how the navigation method used to locate financial statement line items within the U.S. GAAP Taxonomy impacts the effectiveness and efficiency of the mapping task. In a between-subjects experiment, we investigate three navigation methods: hierarchical, direct search and the availability of both hierarchical and direct search. We assess the influence of line-item complexity on effectiveness and efficiency as a within-subjects variable. Results indicate that the use of direct search leads to a decrease in time taken, a significant increase in incorrect answers and overconfidence in those incorrect answers. Complexity leads to a significant decline in accuracy across navigation methods. We further find that the presence of context does not affect mapping effectiveness or efficiency. The results of the study are important to corporations as they begin to prepare tagged financial statements and to financial statement consumers such as auditors, the SEC and investors.

JEL Classification: G38, G29, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Debreceny, Roger S. and Farewell, Stephanie and Kido, Nolan Y., Interacting with Interactive Data: The Effects of Interface and Context on Mapping Financial Statement Elements to the XBRL U.S. GAAP Taxonomy (January 4, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1323530
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies