Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and Thresholds: Are Manipulated Amounts Significant?

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

24 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2009

Olivier B. Vidal

Ecole Normale Superieure de Cachan (ENS)

Date Written: January 8, 2009

Abstract

Threshold studies in accounting use non-parametric methods to measure irregularities around the zero earning threshold. More precisely, the discontinuity is measured by the difference between an observed population and a theoretical population locally estimated by interpolation of adjacent intervals. The sole hypothesis is that the distribution is supposed to be smooth in the absence of earnings management. The originality of this study lies in its identification of a mathematical function for the distributions of earnings in order to measure the theoretical population in a parametric way. Such an approach allows us to better measure discontinuities around thresholds, to better compare thresholds in space and over time, and to evaluate the amounts manipulated. The principal empirical result of this study is to question the postulate of marginal manipulation in earnings management to avoid thresholds.

Note: Downloadable document is in French.

Keywords: Earnings management, accounting threshold, earnings distribution function, Gestion du resultat, seuil comptable, loi de distribution des resultats publics, mesure parametrique des irregularites de distribution, manipulation marginale du resultat

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Vidal, Olivier B., Earnings Management and Thresholds: Are Manipulated Amounts Significant? (January 8, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 Posted: 1997
Crossref
William H. Beaver , Maureen F. McNichols , Karen K. Nelson
An Alternative Interpretation of the Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions
Pages: 55 Posted: 20 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Bisson , P Dumontier , R Et Janin
Les entreprises non cotées manipulent-elles leurs résultats ? Posted: 2004
L D Brown
A Temporal Analysis of Earnings Surprises: Profit versus Losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 221 - 241 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
627
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,486
RANK
97,489
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies