Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stress Testing the Banking System: Methodologies and Applications

STRESS TESTING THE BANKING SYSTEM, M. Quagliariello, ed., Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2009 Last revised: 18 Jan 2009

Mario Quagliariello

European Central Bank (ECB)

Date Written: January 12, 2009

Abstract

Stress tests are quantitative tools used by banking supervisors and central banks for assessing the soundness of the financial system in the event of extreme, but still plausible, shocks (macroeconomic stress tests). They are also an important management instrument for banks since they provide financial institutions with useful indications on the reliability of the internal systems designed for the measurement of risks (microeconomic or prudential stress tests). Under the new Basel Accord on banks' capital adequacy the presence of sound stress testing methodologies is a prerequisite for the adoption of the advanced methods for the quantification of minimum capital requirements.

Until the first half of 2007, the interest for stress testing had been circumscribed to practitioners, i.e., risk managers, central bankers and financial supervisors. Since then, the global financial system has been hit by deep turbulence's and all major economies have been affected by high volatility in financial markets, deterioration of the value of portfolios, widespread repricing of risk and severe liquidity drying up. It has been pointed out that the severity of the crisis has been largely due to its unexpected nature and that a more extensive and rigorous use of stress testing methodologies would have probably contributed to alleviate the intensity and the repercussions of the turmoil. In such a context, stress tests have become a key issue in policy discussions and a regular subject for newspapers' columnists.

Notwithstanding the importance of the topic, books covering the different facets of macroeconomic stress testing are missing so far. While many articles have been published on specific issues and some textbooks deal with prudential stress tests, a systematic survey of methodologies and applications of macroeconomic stress testing is not available.

This book aims at filling this gap, by providing practitioners and academics with a comprehensive and updated discussion of the theoretical underpinnings as well as the practical aspects of the implementation of such exercises. Prudential stress tests carried out by banks are not analysed in the book, even though it is not always practicable (and sensible) to distinguish them from macroeconomic stress tests.

The book builds on the experience gained by the economists of many national and international financial authorities in their day-to-day surveillance activity. All the contributors have an extensive expertise in financial stability issues and stress testing methodologies. Obviously, due to space constraints some potential interesting applications may have been omitted. Nevertheless, the book - while not exhaustive - is wide-ranging and includes outstanding presentations of the most significant approaches as well as an inner description of the state-of-the-art in this field.

While tailored for an expert readership, the book has the ambition to remain accessible to other readers, thanks to its plain language, clear explanation of the different issues, recurrent use of examples. The reader can either pick specific chapters of interest or easily move from simple to more complex topics as she progresses through the text.

Keywords: stress tests, financial stability, financial crises, banks, credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, risk aggregation

JEL Classification: G18, G21, G28, G38, C00

Suggested Citation:

Quagliariello, Mario, Stress Testing the Banking System: Methodologies and Applications (January 12, 2009). STRESS TESTING THE BANKING SYSTEM, M. Quagliariello, ed., Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Alessio De Vincenzo , Maria Alessandra Freni , Andrea Generale , Sergio Nicoletti-Altimari , Mario Quagliariello
Lessons Learned from the Financial Crisis for Financial Stability and Banking Supervision
Bank of Italy Occasional Paper No. 76 · 32 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2011 · Downloads: 601
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alessandro Carboni , Andrea Carboni
An Analysis of Italian Bad Loans: Determinants, Forecasts and Transmission to the Real Economy
65 Pages · Posted: 22 Nov 2014 · Downloads: 157
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,879
RANK
4,053
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stress-Testing Financial Systems: An Overview of Current Methodologies

By Marco Sorge

Macro Stress Testing with a Macroeconomic Credit Risk Model for Finland

By Kimmo Virolainen

The Role of Macroeconomic Shocks in Banking Crises

By Jarmo Pesola

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies