Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between Bank Efficiency and Stock Returns: Evidence from Asia and Latin America

University of Bath, School of Management, Working Paper No. 2008.10

28 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2009

Christos Ioannidis

University of Bath-Department of Economics

Philip Molyneux

University of Sharjah; University of Sharjah - College of Business Administration

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

Date Written: December 12, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the relationship between bank efficiency change and stock price returns. We first estimate the cost and profit efficiency of a sample of Asian and Latin American listed banks over the period 2000-2006 while controlling for cross-country differences such as regulations and the macroeconomic environment. We then regress the annual efficiency changes on stock returns. The results indicate a positive and robust relationship between profit efficiency changes and stock returns. However, we find no evidence that cost efficiency changes are reflected in stock returns. We also find that profit efficiency better explains bank stock returns compared to traditional accounting profits measures (ROE). Overall, we conclude that profit efficiency measures include useful information for shareholders wishing to explain bank stock returns.

Keywords: Asia, Banking, Efficiency, Latin America, Stock returns

JEL Classification: G21, G12, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ioannidis, Christos and Molyneux, Philip and Molyneux, Philip and Pasiouras, Fotios, The Relationship Between Bank Efficiency and Stock Returns: Evidence from Asia and Latin America (December 12, 2008). University of Bath, School of Management, Working Paper No. 2008.10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
B Adenso-Diaz , F Gascon
Linking and Weighting Efficiency Estimates with Stock Performance in Banking Firms, Working Paper 97/21, Financial Institutions Center Posted: 1997
I M S Alam , R C Sickles
The Relationship Between Stock Market Returns and Technical Efficiency Innovations: Evidence from the US Airline Industry
Journal of Productivity Analysis , volume 9 , p. 35 - 51 Posted: 1998
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Y Altunbas , E P M Gardener , P Molyneux , B Moore
Efficiency in European banking
European Economic Review , volume 45 , p. 1931 - 1955 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
17 Citations
Carlos F. Cea , José Antonio Gonzalo Angulo , José Luís Crespo Espert
Effects of destination countries financial development and public export credit guarantees on Spanish exports
The Journal of International Trade & Economic Development , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 410 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Abbas Attarwala , Stanko Dimitrov , Amer Obeidi
A Statistical Method of Goodness on Quantitative Models of Efficiency and Effectiveness
, p. 0215 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Chrysovalantis Gaganis , Iftekhar Hasan , Fotios Pasiouras
Efficiency and Stock Returns: Evidence from the Insurance Industry
Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 14/2013 · 36 Pages · Posted: 26 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 122
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Huzeyfe Zahit ATAN , Resul AYDEMİR
Katılım ve Geleneksel Bankalarda Karlılığın Banka Risk Duyarlılıkları Üzerine Olan Etkisinin Analizi
Research Journal of Politics Economics and Management , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 71 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,734
RANK
98,491
17 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Performance, Efficiency and Ownership in Transitition Countries

By John Bonin, Paul Wachtel, ...

Bank Ownership and Performance

By Alejandro Micco, Ugo Panizza, ...

Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: A Joint Analysis of the Static, Selection, and Dynamic Effects of Domestic, Foreign, and State Ownership

By Allen N. Berger, George R. G. Clarke, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies