Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling and Forecasting a Firm's Financial Statements with a VAR-VECM Model

21 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2009

Bernardus Ferdinandus Nazar Van Doornik

Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil - Central Bank of Brazil

Otavio Ribeiro de Medeiros

Universidade de Brasília (UnB) - Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro

Gustavo R. De Oliveira

Universidade de Brasília (UnB)

Date Written: January 21, 2009

Abstract

This paper details efforts at developing and estimating a Vector Autoregressive (VAR) econometric model representative of the financial statements of a firm. Although the model can be generalized to represent the financial statements of any firm, this work was carried out as a case study, where the chosen company is the largest firm in Brazil: Petrobras S/A. The methodology utilized makes use of correlation analysis, unit root tests, cointegration analysis, VAR modeling, Granger causality tests, in addition to impulse response and variance decomposition methods. Besides the endogenous financial statement variables, an exogenous variable vector was utilized, namely, Brazilian GDP, domestic and foreign interest rates, the international oil price, the exchange rate, and the country risk. The final version of the model is a Vector Error Correction Model (VECM), which takes into account the cointegrating relationships among the endogenous variables. After estimation and validation, the model is used to produce forecasts of the financial statements of the firm under study. Estimates for the exogenous variables and dividend forecasts were also used to estimate the firm's market value. The results are apparently robust and the authors expect they might contribute to the field of financial planning and forecasting.

Keywords: econometric modeling, financial statements, VAR Model, financial forecasting, Petrobras

JEL Classification: C13, C32, C51, C52, C53, D42, M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Doornik, Bernardus Ferdinandus Nazar Van and de Medeiros, Otavio Ribeiro and De Oliveira, Gustavo R., Modeling and Forecasting a Firm's Financial Statements with a VAR-VECM Model (January 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1330866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1330866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J ; Campbell , Shiller R
Cointegration and Tests of Present Value Models
Journal of Political Economy , volume 95 , issue 5 , p. 1062 - 1088 Posted: 1987
Crossref
O R De Medeiros , De
Modelagem Econométrica das Demonstrações Financeiras. UNB Contábil , volume 7 Posted: 2004
D Dickey , W A Fuller
Distributions of the estimates for autoregressive time series with a unit root
Journal of the American Statistical Association , p. 427 - 431 Posted: 1979
Crossref
D Dickey , W A Fuller
Likelihood Ratio Statistics for Autoregressive Time Series with a Unit Root
Econometrica , p. 1057 - 72 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Otavio Ribeiro de Medeiros , José Bonifácio De Araújo Júnior , Bernardus Ferdinandus Nazar Van Doornik
Simulating Fundamental Analysis of a Firm Using a VECX Model
21 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2011 · Downloads: 226
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Duarte Moreira
Does the Zero Lower Bound affect Euro Area Productivity? A Case Study
59 Pages · Posted: 13 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 36
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,878
RANK
43,175
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Non-Monetary Effects of the Financial Crisis in the Propagation of the Great Depression

By Ben S. Bernanke

The Gold Standard and the Great Depression

By Barry Eichengreen and Peter Temin

The Gold-Exchange Standard and the Great Depression

By Barry Eichengreen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies