Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When is a Liability not a Liability? Textual Analysis, Dictionaries, and 10-Ks

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2009 Last revised: 5 Mar 2010

Tim Loughran

University of Notre Dame

Bill McDonald

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 4, 2010

Abstract

Previous research uses negative word counts to measure the tone of a text. We show that word lists developed for other disciplines misclassify common words in financial text. In a large sample of 10 Ks during 1994 to 2008, almost three-fourths of the words identified as negative by the widely used Harvard Dictionary are words typically not considered negative in financial contexts. We develop an alternative negative word list, along with five other word lists, that better reflect tone in financial text. We link the word lists to 10 K filing returns, trading volume, return volatility, fraud, material weakness, and unexpected earnings.

Keywords: Textual analysis, Harvard Dictionary, negative word counts, term weighting

JEL Classification: G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Loughran, Tim and McDonald, Bill, When is a Liability not a Liability? Textual Analysis, Dictionaries, and 10-Ks (March 4, 2010). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1331573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Werner Antweiler , Murray Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? The information content of Internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1293 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Baayen , Harald
Posted: 2001
Bernard R Berelson
Content Analysis in Communication Research Posted: 1952
Erica Chisholm , Tamara G Kolda
New term weighting formulas for the vector space method in information retrieval Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16,329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68,689
RANK
561
232 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Giving Content to Investor Sentiment: The Role of Media in the Stock Market

By Paul C. Tetlock

More than Words: Quantifying Language to Measure Firms' Fundamentals

By Paul C. Tetlock, Maytal Saar-tsechansky, ...

Is All that Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards

By Murray Z. Frank and Werner Antweiler

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies