Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of 'Mandatory Audit-Partner Rotation, Audit Quality and Market Perception: Evidence from Taiwan'

18 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2009 Last revised: 30 Jan 2009

Linda Smith Bamber

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

E. Michael Bamber

University of Georgia

Date Written: December 2008

Abstract

We discuss the Chi, Huang, Liao, and Xie (2009) study of the effects of mandatory audit partner rotation, and then identify areas where we see the greatest potential for future research on audit partner rotation and audit quality. First, we discuss how Chi et al. (2009) fits in the context of the extant literature, and we review challenges of examining audit partner rotation versus audit firm rotation. Second, we consider the study's research design. As Chi et al. suggest, the Taiwanese data provide an opportunity to address a research question that cannot be similarly addressed in a North American context. But the data and research design carry their own set of problems, including issues of statistical power. Third, we consider measures of audit quality. Interpreting the study as providing evidence on audit quality assumes not only that audit quality and earnings quality are the same, but also that abnormal accruals and ERCs are good measures of earnings quality, and by extension, audit quality. While such arguments are common in the archival audit literature, we believe it is time to move beyond these generic proxies. Our discussion concludes with suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Mandatory Audit-Partner Rotation, Auditor Tenure, Audit Quality, Abnormal Accruals

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bamber, Linda Smith and Bamber, E. Michael, Discussion of 'Mandatory Audit-Partner Rotation, Audit Quality and Market Perception: Evidence from Taiwan' (December 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1333784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1333784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Copley
The chosen characteristics could be combined into a single index score, and validated in a manner analogous to Botosan's (1997) approach to developing and validating a disclosure index. Finally, researchers may be able to identify direct measures of audit quality in certain contexts, such as nonprofit firms' compliance with GAAP disclosure requirements (Krishnan and Schauer 2000), errors in insurance firms' estimates of claim loss reserves
or ratings developed by government agencies Posted: 1992
References American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Crossref
Conceptual Framework for AICPA Independence Standards
Crossref
E Bamber , V Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
912
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,737
RANK
59,460
19 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies