Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disinvestment and Corporate Performance

Posted: 15 Nov 2009

Shurveer S. Bhanawat

Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur - Department of Accountancy & Statistics

Date Written: February 2, 2009

Abstract

Disinvestment as a reform measure is sweeping the economies all over the world. The main objective of present paper is to study the impact of the disinvestments on the corporate performance of the public sector undertakings. Corporate performance for the purpose of the present study, has been taken to be the financial performance of the undertakings in which the govt. has undertaken disinvestments. It is assumed here that the financial performance is the basic parameter to measure the efficiency. And thus, if the financial performance has improved it means that there has been an overall efficiency enhancement. The preliminary results of the disinvestment experience show that with the movement from public to private led to some improvement in the corporate performance of the divested units. While the asset utilization and short term liquidity management show an increase in the efficiency, there has been a decline in the overall profitability of the firms. The units show movement in the upper direction as far as solvency position is concerned. However, the change in the variables is not significant. These results have to be interpreted with caution given the small size of the sample. They therefore cannot be generalized for the entire divested unit in India. Moreover, the hosts of factors playing role directly or indirectly in the transition phase have to be kept in mind. Nevertheless, the empirical evidence to date seems to give some positive direction to the process of disinvestment.

Keywords: Disinvestment, Performance, Corporate

Suggested Citation:

Bhanawat, Shurveer Singh, Disinvestment and Corporate Performance (February 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1336794
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,326
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies