Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Accounting and Research: A Review

Accounting and Business Research, 2009

60 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2009 Last revised: 22 Apr 2009

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: February 3, 2009

Abstract

This paper provides a review of empirical research on pension accounting. Empirical research on pension accounting has focused mainly on two issues, the value relevance of pension accounting information and earnings management in pension accounting. Further work has been done on the information efficiency of capital markets with regard to pension accounting information. I outline how research in these areas has evolved over the past decades and discuss the results that have been obtained. I also point out methodological issues. Furthermore, this review reveals that almost all existing studies on pension accounting are based on US accounting and capital-market data. I therefore discuss which effects national or regional differences in, for instance, pension regulation, taxation, funding, have on the production of pension accounting information by preparers, and on the processing of this information by analysts, investors and other users. Finally, I highlight that national institutional differences as well as ongoing changes to pension accounting standards raise interesting opportunities for future empirical research on pension accounting.

Keywords: Pensions, Pension Accounting, Value Relevance, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Glaum, Martin, Pension Accounting and Research: A Review (February 3, 2009). Accounting and Business Research, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1336965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1336965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
196 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring value relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ali , K R Kumar
The magnitudes of financial statement effects and accounting choice. The case of the adoption of SFAS 87
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 89 - 114 Posted: 1994
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Amen
Simulation-based Comparison of Existent IAS 19 Accounting Options
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,210
RANK
32,645
7 Citations
196 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies