Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Program Research Rankings by Topical Area and Methodology

Issues in Accounting Education. Vol. 25, No. 4, pp. 631-654, 2010

32 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2009 Last revised: 16 Dec 2010

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 11, 2010

Abstract

This paper makes two novel contributions to ranking accounting research programs constructed from publication counts in top journals (AOS, Auditing, BRIA, CAR, JAE, JAR, JATA, JIS, JMAR, RAST, and TAR). In contrast to previous studies, we recognize the mobility of intellectual assets tied to the human capital of accounting researchers and therefore base our rankings on the researchers' current affiliations, rather than their affiliations at the time of publication. Also, we categorize each article written by topical area (auditing, financial, managerial, accounting information systems, tax, and other) and by methodology (analytical, archival, experimental, and other) and provide separate accounting program rankings by topical area and by methodology. These two innovations provide a rich, centralized information resource for decision-makers - both institutional and individual - in choosing how to allocate time, resources, and expertise.

Keywords: Accounting Research Rankings, Accounting Research Methodology, Accounting Research Topical Areas

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Coyne, Joshua G. and Summers, Scott L. and Williams, Braden and Wood, David A., Accounting Program Research Rankings by Topical Area and Methodology (May 11, 2010). Issues in Accounting Education. Vol. 25, No. 4, pp. 631-654, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1337755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
W T Andrews , P B Mckenzie
Leading accounting departments revisited
The Accounting Review , p. 135 - 138 Posted: 1978-01
J D Bazley , L A Nikolai
A comparison of published accounting research and qualities of accounting faculty and doctoral programs
The Accounting Review , p. 605 - 610 Posted: 1975-07
S E Bonner , J W Hesford , W A Van Der Stede , S M Young
The most influential journals in academic accounting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , p. 663 - 685 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L D Brown
Ranking journals using social science research network downloads
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 291 - 307 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
26,739
RANK
2,638
15 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Publishing in the Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing

By Edward P. Swanson

Concentration in Publishing at Top-Tier Business Journals: Evidence and Potential Explanations

By Edward P. Swanson, Christopher J. Wolfe, ...

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted at the Top 75 Accounting Research Programs

By Steven M. Glover, Douglas F. Prawitt, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies