Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study of Financial Priorities, Financial Planning and Control Practices in Voluntary Organisations: Perceptions of Treasurers in a Developing Country

Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 270-301, 2007

Posted: 8 Feb 2009 Last revised: 9 Feb 2009

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Raja Vinesh Sannassee

University of Mauritius - Law & Management

Date Written: February 8, 2009

Abstract

This study seeks to explore the financial priorities, financial planning and control practices in locally-established voluntary organisations (LVOs) in a developing country context. Two data collection methods are used to gather views from the LVO treasurers: a questionnaire survey and face-to-face interviews. Treasurers are less focused on priorities involving internal planning and control and are found to be using financial planning and control practices to a limited and seemingly unsophisticated extent. In consideration of the theoretical implications of organizational legitimacy, overall findings suggest that internal practices are: extensively used to convey a symbolic message of rationality, in the pursuit of a pragmatic or a moral form of legitimacy towards a defined funding body or towards a perceived internal target audience, respectively; used in a limited and informal way due to their perceived inappropriateness in legitimating organizations, in "deference" to the voluntary organizations' (VO) primary social objectives; or are virtually inexistent, due to the strong influence of trust embedded in an "emotional-led" context, thereby explaining the irrelevance of financial/control practices - even for symbolic reasons. The questionnaire response rate has been relatively low but the findings are enhanced by the diversity of organizations which participated in the questionnaire and interview stages. This study focuses on locally established organizations in a developing country context, which are typically less subjected to VO regulation and are "managed" by (unpaid) volunteers.The interviews involved a cross-section of LVOs, which has been instrumental in contemplating the potential relevance of the legitimacy perspective.

Keywords: Voluntary organizations, Financial management, Financial control

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Soobaroyen, Teerooven and Sannassee, Raja Vinesh, An Exploratory Study of Financial Priorities, Financial Planning and Control Practices in Voluntary Organisations: Perceptions of Treasurers in a Developing Country (February 8, 2009). Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 270-301, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1339569
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Social Entrepreneurship eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies