Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double-Entry Accounting: The Mathematical Formulation and Generalization

10 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2009

David Ellerman

Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana

Date Written: December 5, 2007

Abstract

Although double-entry accounting has been used in the business world for 5 centuries, the mathematical formulation of the double entry method is almost completely unknown. In this paper, the usual case of scalars is given first and then generalized to the multi-dimensional case of vectors. The success in maintaining the two-sided accounts, debits and credits, the double-entry principle, and the trial balance in both cases provides strong evidence that the formulation correctly captures the double-entry method in mathematical form.

Keywords: double-entry accounting, debits, credits, multi-dimensional accounting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ellerman, David, Double-Entry Accounting: The Mathematical Formulation and Generalization (December 5, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1340619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1340619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Nicolas Bourbaki
Elements of Mathematics: Algebra I. Reading MA Posted: 1974
Arthur Cayley , 1894
The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry
A Charnes , C Colantoni , W W Cooper
A futurological justification for historical cost and multidimensional accounting
Accounting, Organizations, and Society , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 315 - 352 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Augustus Demorgan
On the main principle of book-keeping
Elements of Arithmetic Posted: 1869
Load more
2 Citations
Sander Renes
When Debit=Credit, The Balance Constraint in Bookkeeping, Its Causes and Consequences for Accounting
42 Pages · Posted: 30 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 409
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sander Renes
When Debit=Credit. The Balance Constraint in Bookkeeping, its Causes and Consequences for Accounting
42 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 86
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
990
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,927
RANK
53,170
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies