Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Risk Argument for the Value Premium: A Stochastic Dominance Approach

29 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2009 Last revised: 16 Feb 2009

Desmond Ong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Wai-Mun Fong

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Accounting

Cheekiat Low

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 31, 2008

Abstract

The value premium remains a puzzle despite considerable research effort in accounting for the higher returns earned by value stocks relative to growth stocks. A rational explanation is that value stocks are more risky than growth stocks. We seek to validate the risk argument in a nonparametric framework with the method of stochastic dominance. This approach avoids the model misspecification problem inherent in traditional CAPM or multifactor risk pricing models. We explore the dominance relationship in good and bad states of the economy and equity market to check if the superior performance of value investing persists in regimes where investors have different risk aversion. We find that value stocks stochastically dominate growth stocks very robustly, implying the implausibility of any risk-based explanation for the value premium puzzle.

Keywords: Value Premium, Value Investing, Growth Investing, Stochastic Dominance, Market Efficiency, Regime-Switching

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ong, Desmond and Fong, Wai-Mun and Low, Cheekiat, Investigating the Risk Argument for the Value Premium: A Stochastic Dominance Approach (December 31, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1344011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1344011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Ball
Anomalies in relationships between securities' yields and yield-surrogates
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 6 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 1978
Crossref
S Basu
Investment performance of common stocks in relation to their price-earnings ratios: A test of the efficient market hypothesis
Journal of Finance , volume 32 , p. 663 - 682 Posted: 1977
Crossref
La Porta , R
Expectations and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , p. 1715 - 1742 Posted: 1996
J Lakonishok , A Shleifer , R W Vishny
Contrarian Investment , volume 49 , p. 1541 - 1578 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
484,103
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Predictive Regressions

By Robert F. Stambaugh

Consumption, Aggregate Wealth and Expected Stock Returns

By Martin Lettau and Sydney C. Ludvigson

Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles

By Ravi Bansal and Amir Yaron

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies