Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Most Prolific Authors in the Accounting Literature Over the Past Half-Century: 1959-2008

19 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2009

Jean L. Heck

St. Joseph's University - Haub School of Business; Saint Joseph's University

Date Written: February 15, 2009

Abstract

The prolific authors identified in this study are truly remarkable: 626 prolific authors in five leading accounting journals and 620 prolific authors in twenty five core accounting journals examined. These authors demonstrate great durability in navigating the vagaries of referees and the demands of editors. They represent a small minority of thousands of authors during the half century 1959 to 2008. Besides satisfying a natural curiosity of who the prolific authors are, examination of extreme performance provides perspective on research productivity in accounting, as do the reported distributional statistics. The findings help in the formation of realistic expectations about scholarly work.

Keywords: Prolific Authors, Leading Authors, Accounting

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Heck, Jean L. and Heck, Jean L., Most Prolific Authors in the Accounting Literature Over the Past Half-Century: 1959-2008 (February 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1344072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1344072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,959
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,608
RANK
19,241
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Relative Contributions of Professional Journals to the Field of Accounting

By Murphy Smith

Information Technology and Systems Research Published in Major Accounting Academic and Professional Journals

By Jap Efendi, Elizabeth V. Mulig, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies