Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agreeing on Problems, Where are the Solutions? A Reply to Quattrone

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Feb 2009

Teemu Malmi

Aalto University School of Business

Markus Granlund

Turku School of Economics

Date Written: February 18, 2009

Abstract

It seems that Paolo Quattrone (PQ) shares in his interesting commentary some of the concerns we expressed in our manuscript. In a good post-modernist spirit, he criticizes our work, which of course is far from being beyond critics. But does he provide any solutions or insights on how to overcome those concerns we all seem to share? He credits us for calling action and debate. A good debate, at least to our taste, would be between alternative solutions. Now the only option we have is to debate on the merits and demerits of what we propose, as there are no other solutions suggested. If post-modern means only criticism, but no progressive efforts, we are happy to "have never been post-modern". In this reply we try to address some of the issues PQ sees in our paper. Our presentation will follow the structure of PQ's commentary: the purpose of our original manuscript, assumptions, definitions and paradoxes.

Keywords: Management accounting, theory

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Malmi, Teemu and Granlund, Markus, Agreeing on Problems, Where are the Solutions? A Reply to Quattrone (February 18, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1345801
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies