Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Approximation of Intraday Spreads Using Daily Data

Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2009 Last revised: 15 May 2013

Kee H. Chung

State University of New York at Buffalo - School of Management

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: March 21, 2013

Abstract

This study examines the relation between the bid-ask spread from the daily CRSP data and the bid-ask spread from the intraday TAQ data. We show that the CRSP-based spread is highly correlated with the TAQ-based spread across stocks using data from 1993 through 2009. The simple CRSP-based spread provides a better approximation of the TAQ-based spread than all other low-frequency liquidity measures in cross-sectional settings. However, the CRSP-based spread is highly correlated with the TAQ spread in time-series settings only for NASDAQ stocks. Overall, our results suggest that the simple CRSP-based spread could be used in lieu of the TAQ-based spread in academic research that focuses on cross-sectional analysis.

Keywords: Bid-ask spreads, TAQ, CRSP, Market liquidity, Information asymmetry, Low-frequency liquidity measures

JEL Classification: G12, G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Kee H. and Zhang, Hao, A Simple Approximation of Intraday Spreads Using Daily Data (March 21, 2013). Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1346363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1346363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Ali , T Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Banerjee , V Gatchev , P A Spindt
Stock market liquidity and firm dividend policy
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 42 , p. 369 - 397 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,958
RANK
38,022
28 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects

By Yakov Amihud

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns

By Lubos Pastor and Robert F. Stambaugh

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies