Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research the American Way: The Role of US Elites in Disseminating and Legitimizing Canadian Academic Accounting Research

European Accounting Review Vol. 18, No. 3

72 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2009 Last revised: 12 May 2010

Sandy Qu

York University - Schulich School of Business

Shujun Ding

York University - Atkinson School of Administrative Studies

Shelley M. Lukasewich

University of Regina - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: February 22, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines authorship distribution in a premiere Canadian-based research journal, Contemporary Accounting Research (CAR). It provides empirical evidence of a strong US elite dominance in the research agenda of a non-US research community. This is illustrated through a consistently higher proportion of authorship representation and participation of US elites (measured by doctoral origins) in CAR and its associated Conference. We also found that a small group of Canadian schools (measured by academic affiliations) contributes the most publications to CAR but their representation on CAR editorial board and participation at the PhD Consortium was limited.

We express our concern as to the constructive role of CAR as a top-tier journal in the dissemination of accounting research. We draw upon discussion on a European research tradition (represented by AOS and EAR), and its general approach to accounting research, which is perceived as distinct from the US elite approach (Lukka and Kasanen, 1996). Insights gained help widen the acceptable research in top tier journals such as CAR for further its aim to enhance geographical and intellectual diversity.

Keywords: research elite, Contemporary Accounting Research, Contemporary Accounting Research Conference, journal publication, dominance, US elite schools, paradigm diversity

Suggested Citation:

Qu, Sandy Q. and Ding, Shujun and Lukasewich, Shelley M., Research the American Way: The Role of US Elites in Disseminating and Legitimizing Canadian Academic Accounting Research (February 22, 2009). European Accounting Review Vol. 18, No. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
137 References
M Abernethy , W F Chua
A field study of control system 'redesign': the impact of institutional processes on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: a field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W T Andrews , P B Mackenzie
Leading accounting departments revisited
The Accounting Review , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 138 Posted: 1978
M Augier , J March , B N Sullivan
Notes on the Evolution of a Research Community: Organization Studies in Anglophone North America
Organization Science , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 95 Posted: 1945
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,901
RANK
459,150
137 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webtrust Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webstrust E-Commerce Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

The Construction of Auditability: MBA Rankings and Assurance in Practice

By Clinton Free, Steven Salterio, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies